                              363 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                         January 23, 1990, Tuesday, ME1

Judge weighs fight on hospital merger

BYLINE: By Kelly Toughill Toronto Star

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A6

LENGTH: 354 words


   The Ontario Supreme Court was to decide today whether to forbid a meeting
designed to block a proposed merger between Women's College Hospital and the
Toronto Hospital Corp.

Foes of the merger have called a Women's College membership meeting for tomorrow
night.

They hope members will either dump 18 pro-merger directors of the board or force
the board to scrap the planned merger.

The board has 18 elected and eight ex-officio members.

A lawyer representing the board yesterday asked the Ontario Supreme Court for an
injunction to stop the meeting, saying it was improperly called.

After hearing seven hours of complex legal arguments, Justice Allan Austin
promised to decide this morning if the meeting can go ahead.

Legal issue

He said he won't consider the merger's merits or the hospital politics in his
ruling, but only the legal issue of whether the meeting was properly called.

The Women's College board says the merger with the giant Toronto Hospital is the
only way to save the 70-year-old institution, which is $3 million in debt and in
danger of losing its status as a teaching hospital.

Merger opponents say it will destroy the unique character of the hospital.

Trisha Jackson, the board's lawyer, argued yesterday that the court should stop
the general membership meeting as members don't have the legal power to do most
of the things on the meeting agenda, she said.

Anti-merger group

Lawyers for the anti-merger coalition argued members have the power to do the
things on the agenda, including turfing out pro-merger directors and electing a
new slate.

The two sides also disagreed about who makes up the hospital membership and
whether they were all notified of the meeting.

The hospital has more than 3,000 members, or financial supporters, according to
a list prepared at the direction of the hospital president.

But Jackson said hospital officials recently discovered an error in the list.

More than 300 people inadvertently left off the original list haven't been
notified of the meeting, as required by law.Women's; College; Hospital; Toronto

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1990 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


