                              356 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                    November 4, 1997, Tuesday, ALL EDITIONS

Lynn McIver, 48, helped in management of medical office buildings across;
Southeast

BYLINE: Cato Bass; STAFF WRITER

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS; Pg. 06B; Pg. 07B

LENGTH: 319 words


The funeral for Lynn G. McIver of Acworth, 48, vice president of legal services
for Cousins/Richmond, an Atlanta medical office management company, will be at
11 a.m. today at Woodstock Funeral Home.

She died Saturday of cancer at Northside Hospital.

Although she was diagnosed with breast cancer eight years ago, Mrs. McIver never
gave a thought to giving up her job.

"At her own insistence, she kept working," said Lea Richmond of Atlanta,
president of Cousins/Richmond, who has worked with Mrs. McIver for the past 23
years. "It was not in her personality to quit."

As vice president of legal services for Cousins/Richmond, a division of Cousins
Properties Inc., Mrs. McIver was responsible for the company's legal
documentation involving building and managing medical office buildings in
Atlanta and across the Southeast in partnership with hospitals and physician
groups, according to Mr. Richmond.

Among the local hospitals that Mrs. McIver worked with closely were Scottish
Rite Children's Medical Center, Gwinnett Medical Center, North Fulton Regional
Hospital and Northside Hospital.

A Brookhaven native, Mrs. McIver was an honors graduate of Cross Keys High
School and earned a bachelor's degree in paralegal studies at the University of
Alabama at Birmingham, according to her husband, Roger S. McIver of Acworth.

At Woodstock Christian Church, Mrs. McIver taught Sunday school and sang in the
choir. She supported the American Diabetes Association; her 13-year-old son,
Kenneth Charles McIver of Acworth, has the disease.

Survivors other than her husband and son are another son, Russell McIver of
Morrow; three sisters, Dottie Crist of Dallas, Ga., Doris Hurst of Atlanta and
Ann Weed of Stone Mountain; and a grandchild.

In lieu of flowers, the family requests contributions be made to the American
Diabetes Association, 1 Corporate Blvd. N.E., Atlanta, Ga. 30329-2012.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: mug of Lynn McIver

                    Copyright 1997 The Atlanta Constitution


