                              358 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                 March 12, 1996, Tuesday, 2 Late Tampa Edition

TGH hunt for chief starts again

BYLINE: MARTY ROSEN

SECTION: TAMPA & STATE; Pg. 1B

LENGTH: 684 words

DATELINE: TAMPA



Tampa General Hospital's board Monday scrapped a nationwide search for a new
president that was tainted by bad legal advice, voting instead to start over
again Friday.

They will do it with legal advice from the lawyer who created their last  legal
mess. The public board, with some confusion, rejected a bid to fire the  Tampa
law firm of Allen, Dell, Frank & Trinkle, whose lawyers had erroneously
approved the first process that violated Florida's open government laws.

Board member Pat Frank reasoned: After making so many errors, attorney Mike
Brown should now be familiar with the law. Brown abruptly left the hospital
after a closed-door session where board members questioned his abilities and
raised issues of his firm's liability for the costly mistakes. He later  refused
to comment.

Two of the three finalists said Monday the delay has not tempered their
interest in the job.

"Those things happen," said finalist Dan Couch, 58, deputy executive  director
of Truman Medical Center in Kansas City, Mo. "I think there are a  lot of things
going for Tampa General. The real question is, is everybody  ready to jump on
board and move ahead?"

The board was scheduled to learn more about the finalists Monday, but the
process unraveled after the Times sued to make their names public.
Subsequently, Brown admitted last week in a private meeting that he erred by
approving a secret screening process. The search was deemed illegal because  the
board delegated a portion of the decision-making process to a committee  that
met out of public view.

However, the aborted search has not ended the legal wranglings.

Hillsborough Circuit Judge Manuel Menendez Monday gave the consultant who
conducted the search until 10 a.m. Thursday to give job applicants an
opportunity to prove that disclosing their names could hurt them. The adage
"justice delayed is justice denied is very appropriate," he said, since his
ruling denied access for another 72 hours.

Consultant Ed French was represented by Tampa lawyer Rob Williams, the  former
hospital board chairman who led the failed attempt in 1989 to privatize  Tampa
General. Williams agreed in a hearing Monday that the public has a right  to the
records, but said releasing names would violate the privacy rights of  the
candidates.

While more than 275 resumes were mailed to him, French later said in a
deposition that he only maintained a list of about 50 serious candidates,
including 16 finalists who flew at the hospital's expense to interviews in
Atlanta and Scottsdale, Ariz. The hospital board, which will decide on a new
search process Friday, has not yet sought to obtain those records.

French and board chairwoman Phyllis Busansky called three finalists Monday  to
apologize for the botched search and urge the candidates to reapply for the
job. All three, who were recruited by French for the Tampa General job, are  top
hospital executives with stellar reputations in the health care industry.

Don Snell, 41, executive director of the Hospital of the University of
Pennsylvania and Presbyterian Medical Center in Philadelphia, said the glitch
in the hiring process didn't frighten him away. Snell, the former interim  chief
executive officer at the public Grady Memorial Hospital in Atlanta, said  he has
a passion for public hospitals. "I have inserted myself in  institutions that
are more of a challenge," he said.

Sam Odle, the third candidate, was not available for comment.

Board members agreed Monday they'll conduct the new search in public view.
Hospital President Fred Karl, 71, said Monday he is ready to move on but will
stay if the search moves quickly. He and Busansky have concerns about keeping
Brown's firm on as legal counsel. Busansky pushed Monday to bring Hillsborough
County Attorney Emmy Acton in to guide the next search.

"This is a very complex and treacherous process and it takes an expert to
clearly define parameters," Karl said. "I would be more comfortable if we  had a
legal adviser who specializes in this field."

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: TAMPA & STATE

GRAPHIC: COLOR PHOTO; Board member Pat Frank

                    Copyright 1996 Times Publishing Company


