                              355 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                            Staffordshire Newsletter

                            August 5, 2015 Wednesday

SECTION: NEWS:HEALTH; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 289  words


A STAFFORD councillor has failed in a last-ditch bid to take legal action
against the closure of services at the town's County Hospital.

Yesterday Councillor Louise Nixon, pictured below, who only joined the council
in May, called on Stafford Borough Council's cabinet to pursue legal action. She
said there were just days left to launch a challenge, and claims the deadline
for submissions is Monday, August 17.

The Labour councillor, who represents the Coton ward, told the Newsletter before
yesterday's meeting: "We have only got eight working days left if anything can
be done. The community needs this hospital and we need proper support from the
council if we are going to move this forward."

She has been working on the call for legal action since June and has been backed
by the council's opposition leader Jack Kemp, fellow Labour councillors, Support
Stafford Hospital campaigners and Karen Howell, who represented the National
Health Action Party in the May elections.

In January, Stafford Borough Council ruled out a legal challenge following
advice from a barrister.

Tory council leader Patrick Farrington questioned the deadline.

He told the meeting that 12 months ago the council had resolved to put aside
£100,000 to obtain special legal advice but that the council reluctantly
resolved no legal challenge was possible at that time.

Councillor Farrington, who was heckled by members of the public, said it had
been resolved to scrutinise decisions made by University Hospitals of North
Midlands NHS Trust.

No move was made to take legal action.

Support Stafford Hospital member Julian Porter said: "I don't think the council
has been quick enough or strong enough.

"They should be doing more for the services at the hospital."

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved


