                              361 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 27, 2002 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hospital Drops Legal Action To Stem Tide of Bad Publicity

BYLINE:  By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 727 words

DATELINE: BRIDGEPORT, Conn., July 26


Bridgeport Hospital withdrew a lawsuit today that it had filed on Wednesday
against a man whose wife died in 1997 from an infection she contracted during
cardiac surgery at the hospital. The quick withdrawal of the suit suggested that
legal action intended to relieve a public relations headache had created a
public relations nightmare instead.

The hospital, Fairfield County's largest trauma center, filed the lawsuit
against Phillip Bonaffini of Bridgeport after he was quoted in an article in The
Chicago Tribune last Sunday about infections that kill tens of thousands of
patients each year in the United States, infections that are largely the result
of health care workers' failure to follow proper sanitary procedures as simple
as washing their hands.

The Tribune article detailed an outbreak of staphylococcus infections at
Bridgeport Hospital in late 1996 and 1997. According to the report, the
infections were the result of numerous unsanitary practices and conditions.
Among other problems, The Tribune reported that a faulty ventilation system
allowed dust and flies to be in the air during surgery and some doctors wore
dirty clothes and did not wash their hands.

The Tribune also reported that Bridgeport Hospital has made great strides in
addressing the problems and that it now has an infection rate of less than 1
percent, far below the national average. But what caught the attention of
hospital lawyers was information clearly provided by Mr. Bonaffini and Eunice
Babcock, another patient who became infected with staphylococcus bacteria during
surgery at the hospital.

Mr. Bonaffini, Mrs. Babcock and her husband, Keith, had sued Bridgeport Hospital
over the infections. The hospital settled the case last year and paid Mr.
Bonaffini and Mr. and Mrs. Babcock an undisclosed sum in exchange for signed
confidentiality agreements. In the lawsuit the hospital accused all three, and
their lawyer, Margaret Haering, of violating the terms of the settlement.

In the lawsuit, filed in State Superior Court in Bridgeport, the hospital
charged: "By discussing these matters with the media, Babcock and Bonaffini
either directly or indirectly through their servants, agents, employees and
legal representatives breached the confidentiality agreement which they had
previously entered into with Bridgeport Hospital."

If the goal was to stem negative publicity, suing a man whose wife died and a
woman who was left mostly wheelchair-bound, was probably ill-advised. The
Connecticut Post and The Associated Press reported the lawsuit on Thursday. The
Chicago Tribune followed with its own account today. By late this afternoon, a
hospital spokeswoman, Audrey Wise, said the suit had been withdrawn.

Ms. Wise said the lawsuit had overshadowed the advances Bridgeport Hospital has
made since the outbreak of infections five years ago. "As The Chicago Tribune
pointed out today and a independent public health agency confirmed, Bridgeport
Hospital's infection rate is at 1 percent or less, which is far below the
national average," she said. "Anything that distracts from that is not
productive for anybody."

"The decision," she added, "was made to withdraw the legal action so we can all
focus on the fact that our infection rate is less than 1 percent. Nothing should
come between the public and that message."

Ms. Wise said hospital officials initially decided to sue to enforce the
settlement agreement.

"Bridgeport Hospital and the Bonaffinis and the Babcocks had come to a
settlement; each of us had agreed to the terms," Ms. Wise said. "They came
forward and, as we understand it, that was a violation of the settlement
agreement. That's why we went to court this week, just to enforce the terms of
the settlement."

In the lawsuit, the hospital said it was seeking damages in excess of $15,000.
The hospital also received a temporary restraining order from Judge Barbara J.
Sheedy barring Mr. and Mrs. Babcock, Mr. Bonaffini, and Ms. Haering from
discussing "the terms, conditions and existence of any and all settlement
agreements regarding Bridgeport Hospital."

In an interview, Mrs. Babcock said she was glad that the lawsuit had been
dropped and that she was reluctant to discuss the situation for fear of
prompting even more litigation. "We knew that we were right and they were
wrong," she said, "because we have said nothing about anything."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


