                              359 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                       St. Louis Post-Dispatch (Missouri)

                            December 10, 2004 Friday
                        ILLINOIS FIVE STAR LIFT EDITION

Hospital's ex-lawyer is facing board complaint

BYLINE: By ROBERT GOODRICH Of the Post-Dispatch

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 559 words


A former medical malpractice defense lawyer for Memorial Hospital in Belleville
is accused by the agency that licenses and disciplines lawyers in Illinois of a
conflict of interest for taking a case as a plaintiff lawyer against the
hospital.

The lawyer, Doreen Ann Graham of St. Louis, and her attorney, Charles J.
Northrup of Springfield, admit that she took the case but deny any conflict of
interest.

Earlier, Memorial Hospital filed a civil suit against Graham and her former law
firm, Moser & Marsalek of St. Louis, charging legal malpractice. In the suit,
which was settled out of court last month, the hospital charged that it could
not reach Graham for months at a time and eventually found out she had been
"hospitalized for chemical and-or alcohol dependency problems."

It said she was later admitted to an inpatient treatment center in Florida. It
charged that in August 2001, about the time she left Moser & Marsalek, one of
its other lawyers told the hospital no one there had time for its cases.

The suit says trial in one of Graham's cases was then only four weeks off, and
the hospital had to hire another law firm to represent it -- at a cost of
$75,000.

Memorial Hospital's suit was first filed in circuit court in Belleville but was
almost immediately transferred to federal court in East St. Louis. The
settlement prohibits either side from discussing it or disclosing the outcome.

Graham was in trial on Thursday, and could not be reached for comment. Northrup,
her defense lawyer in the conflict of interest proceeding, said he knew little
about the civil suit.

The Illinois Attorney Registration and Disciplinary Commission filed its
complaint against Graham on Sept. 20. It has the authority to recommend that the
Illinois Supreme Court suspend or disbar a lawyer.

The agency's complaint lists five malpractice lawsuits it says Graham helped
defend before she left Moser & Marsalek in August 2001. It says she had inside
access to hospital staff, policies and procedures plus contractual
relationships.

It says she was went to work in September 2001 for a different St. Louis firm,
Casey & Meyerkord, and one month later it filed a malpractice suit against
Memorial in circuit court in Belleville for a man named James Bush.

Five weeks later, according to the commission, Graham entered her appearance as
a plaintiff lawyer in the Bush case.

The agency says Graham and her firm refused to withdraw from the case, despite a
demand by the hospital's lawyers.

That refusal, it says, included an affidavit denying she had inside information
that could be used against the hospital in the Bush case. The commission's
complaint says, "These representations were false."

Graham has since left Casey & Meyerkord for another firm in St. Louis.

In his response to the commission complaint, Northrup denies Graham had as much
inside information about Memorial as the hospital says.

Northrup's response also says that many of the commission's other charges may or
may not be true and call for legal conclusions. Those issues may be hashed out
in a hearing that has yet to be scheduled.

He said that because it is a pending legal matter, he would not discuss it in
detail.

Graham is licensed as a lawyer in Missouri and Illinois and is authorized to
practice in federal court on both sides of the river. She is also licensed in
Illinois as a registered nurse.

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2004 St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Inc.


