                              362 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                           Daily Deal (New York, NY)

                             March 26, 2001 Monday

Universal buys French hospital operator

BYLINE: by Tyson Freeman

SECTION: M&A

LENGTH: 420 words

HIGHLIGHT: The hospital operator has paid $75 million for an 80% stake in Sante
Finance, the fourth-largest operator of private hospitals in France.


King of Prussia, Penn., hospital operator Universal Health Services Inc. has
paid $75 million for an 80% stake in Sante Finance, the fourth-largest operator
of private hospitals in France.

Universal Health bought its stake in the hospital chain from management and
Legal & General Ventures U.K., the venture-capital arm of U.K. insurance company
Legal & General Group plc. Legal Ventures sold its roughly 50% stake for around
$24.6 million, for a gain of approximately $15 million on the firm's initial
investment.

The remaining 20% of what was formerly named Sante Finance is still owned by its
management, led by President Frederic Dubois.

United Health Services said in a press release it has formed a new company named
Medi-Partenaires to complete the transaction. The entity currently owns eight
hospitals which posted approximately $75 million in net revenues in the fiscal
year ended Dec. 2000.

Medi-Partenaires' strategy is to selectively acquire hospitals with high market
shares in mid-sized towns throughout France.

"We are pleased to have this new avenue for growth and diversification," said
Alan Miller, president and CEO of United Health Service in a prepared statement.
"While there are numerous differences between the French and the American health
care systems, the operation of hospitals and the strategies that determine
success are fundamentally the same."

Universal Health Services is the third-largest hospital management company in
the U.S. and operates facilities nationwide including medical, surgical and
behavioral-health hospitals as well as ambulatory surgery and radiation therapy
centers. It also acts as advisor to Universal Health Realty Income Trust, a King
of Prussia healthcare real estate investment trust, leasing and managing several
of the REIT's properties.

The company has completed several hospital acquisitions since the beginning of
the year. It bought two behavioral-health hospitals in Boston - Pembroke
Hospital and Westwood Lodge Hospital - for approximately $6 million, the 108-bed
San Juan Capestrano Hospital in Rio Piedras, Puerto Rico; McAllen Heart
Hospital, a 60-bed specialty heart hospital in McAllen, Texas; and Southwest
Surgical Arts Center, a freestanding outpatient surgery center in Reno, Nevada.

United Health Services shares rose $1.87, or 2.26%, to close at $84.72 March 26.
Its shares have traded between $77 and $88 since January when its shares tumbled
from a 52-week high of around $112.93.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: M & A

                         Copyright 2001 The Deal L.L.C.


