                              360 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                                US Official News

                            December 26, 2016 Monday

Hospital Negligence

LENGTH: 756  words

DATELINE: New York


New York: Legal Resources Organization has issued the following news release:
If you or a loved one is hospitalized because of an injury or illness, you are
putting your health and safety in the hands of medical professionals.  From
physicians and nurses to orderlies and station assistants, hospitals must ensure
that their staff has been thoroughly trained and that they are following the
policies and procedures that have been put into place. When mistakes are made
that harm the patient, the hospital administration and the medical professional
who treated you can be held liable for medical negligence.  Examples of medical
mistakes that can lead to hospital negligence include the following:  Surgical
errors Failure to obtain informed consent Delayed or incorrect diagnosis
Medication errors Anesthesiologist complications Hospital infections Nursing
errors In most cases, if a patient is injured because an employee of the
hospital acts incompetently, the hospital will be liable for the patient's
injuries.

However, this does not include mistakes made by doctors who are not employees of
the hospital. Non-employee doctors are considered independent contractors, which
means the hospital is not responsible for their medical malpractice. An
exception to this rule is if the hospital gives staff privileges to an
incompetent doctor, or if the hospital did not fully explain to the patient that
the doctor is not a hospital employee.  Pursuing Legal Action If you plan to
file a medical malpractice claim against a hospital, you must prove the
following elements.  The hospital had a duty to you. In most cases, a copy of a
test or medical procedure, or your visit to the emergency room is proof of this
element.  The hospital breached its duty to you. After establishing the accepted
standard of care, a medical malpractice lawyer can prove how the hospital failed
to meet this standard.  The breach of duty caused your injury. You will only
have a valid claim if the hospital's mistakes caused you harm. The hospital's
mistakes are the cause of your damages. If the hospital tried to show that you
were responsible for what happened, a medical malpractice lawyer can help build
your case and be prepared to counter the argument.  Steps to Take When Filing a
Medical Malpractice Lawsuit Act quickly. If you wait too long to file a claim,
the statute of limitations could run out, and you will be unable to pursue legal
action.  Hire a Medical Malpractice Lawyer. Medical malpractice cases can be
extremely complex, so it is not recommended that you handle the case on your
own.  Determine Whether the Hospital or an Independent Contractor is Negligent.
Most doctors are independent contractors, so if the doctor provided sub-standard
care, you would have to sue to doctor, not the hospital.  Obtain Medical
Records. Request all medical records from the hospital. Every hospital must keep
patient records on file for up to several years.  Determine Damages. Consider
all losses that are connected to the malpractice, including medical expenses,
loss of wages, pain and suffering, and a compromised quality of life.  Determine
Who is Responsible for the Mistake. When a number of medical professionals are
involved in treating you, you must determine who is responsible for the medical
error. For example, it could be a nurse, a pharmacist, or an ambulance service,
to name a few.  Comply with the Rules. The patient can speak with their medical
malpractice lawyer to find out if they have to file an affidavit of merit, or
submit a claim to a medical review board before filing in court.  Draft and File
a Complaint. This should include the patient's name, the names of all parties
responsible, a detailed description of the incident including the harm that was
caused, and the dollar amount that the patient expects to receive.  ABOUT THE
AUTHOR: Benjamin Folkman Ben Folkman was named, by his peers, New Jersey Super
Lawyer for the last seven years running and Top Lawyer in SJ Magazine for the
last six. His $100 million verdict was listed by the NJ Law Journal as the
largest personal injury verdict for New Jersey in 2009. Licensed to practice law
in New Jersey, Pennsylvania, New York and Washington D.C., Ben Folkman opened
Folkman Law Offices, P.C. in October of 1998. Ben is highly accessible to
clients and prides himself on working diligently to make sure that each and
every one of their needs is met.   In case of any query regarding this article
or other content needs please contact: editorial@plusmediasolutions.com

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newswire


              Copyright 2016 Plus Media Solutions Private Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


