                              38 of 993 DOCUMENTS


            The Fayetteville Observer (Fayetteville, North Carolina)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             July 6, 2011 Wednesday

Hoke board's resolution seeks end to legal appeals on hospital projects

BYLINE: Jennifer Calhoun, The Fayetteville Observer, N.C.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 351 words


July 06--RAEFORD -- The Hoke County Board of Commissioners on Tuesday night
asked Cape Fear Valley Health System to drop legal appeals against FirstHealth
of the Carolinas and start building a hospital.

The request was made in the form of a resolution that passed unanimously by the
five-member board.

The resolution was a reaction to Cape Fear Valley's recent refusal to drop legal
appeals against FirstHealth of the Carolinas, which has effectively delayed
construction of two hospitals in the county.

Both health systems have received permission from the state to build hospitals
in Raeford, and both have blocked the other from building through legal appeals.

Last month, however, FirstHealth offered to drop its appeals against Cape Fear
Valley and begin building its proposed eight-bed hospital in the county, if Cape
Fear Valley would do the same and start construction on its 41-bed hospital.

Cape Fear Valley officials refused the offer, saying the FirstHealth hospital
would not fit the needs of the county's residents.

The board's resolution negated Cape Fear Valley's argument, saying the appeals
could delay construction of a hospital in the county for years.

The resolution went on to say that Cape Fear Valley was "unreasonably blocking
the progress of improving the state of health care for the citizens of Hoke
County."

The board passed the resolution without comment.

Chairman Tony Hunt, who had called officials from the two health systems
together on June 20 to discuss the hospital situation, said residents have been
asking when the hospitals would be built.

"We're just sick and tired of all the legal maneuvering," Hunt said, during the
June 20 meeting.

Staff writer Jennifer Calhoun can be reached at calhounj@fayobserver.com or
486-3595.

To see more of The Fayetteville Observer, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go
to http://www.fayettevillenc.com/. Copyright (c) 2011, The Fayetteville
Observer, N.C. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more
information about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information
Services (MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110706-FY-Hoke-board-s-resolution-seeks-end-to-legal-appeals-on-
hospital-projects-0706-20110706

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: FY


                    Copyright 2011 The Fayetteville Observer


