                              364 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                               Stoke The Sentinel

                             May 24, 2014 Saturday

Legal bid to stop hospital changes

BYLINE: BY RICHARD AULT

SECTION: NEWS:HEALTH; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 441  words


A LEGAL challenge has been launched against the decision to downgrade Stafford
Hospital.

Labour's Parliamentary candidate for Stafford, Kate Godfrey, has lodged papers
at Birmingham High Court, applying for a judicial review.

The decision to downgrade the hospital was made by Health Secretary Jeremy Hunt,
after he accepted the final report of the Trust Special Administrators (TSA) and
presented it to Parliament.

That recommended dissolving the Mid-Staffordshire NHS Trust and the loss of key
services at Stafford Hospital, including paediatric care and assessment,
consultant-led maternity services and the permanent downgrading of A&E to a
daytime service, and downgrading of the critical care services.

Services lost to Stafford will be transferred to the University Hospital of
North Staffordshire.  But David Cameron has  insisted on a further inquiry to
see if consultant-led childbirth can stay at Stafford after all.

In her legal challenge, submitted late yesterday, Miss Godrey argues that
analysis carried out by the TSA was flawed and should not have been accepted by
Mr Hunt.

Miss Godfrey also believes the decision to downgrade the hospital fails the
people of Stafford and denies patients choice.

The 33-year-old, who lives in Stafford, said: "I think Stafford Hospital should
be able to provide the services that people value.

"If we don't go all out to stop the downgrade it will set a precedent. The idea
that small hospitals have a future will go away.

"In the town, there is a great deal of fear about what will happen if services
are removed. Services are intertwined.

"You can't have maternity services without critical care. By removing key
services you take the financial heart out of a hospital.

"The consultation was a mockery - 500 people were locked out of meetings when
too many people turned up."

Sue Hawkins, chairman of campaign group Support Stafford Hospital, said: "We
have worked hard to scrutinise the process and final decision.

"We have also taken legal advice, which led the group to agree our best course
of action is to pursue other legal options, including a possible future judicial
review into other aspects of the process.

"We are continuing to actively explore these options, while scrutinising the
ongoing transition of governance of the trust and campaigning for increased
transparency and equal representation on the new trust board."

Stoke-on-Trent South Labour MP Rob Flello said: "I hope the High Court challenge
is resolved quickly. I support Stafford having a good and proper hospital that
suits the needs of the local people, but at the same time we need to make sure
there are no adverse effects at UHNS."

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2014 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved


