                              368 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                               The Ottawa Citizen

                     February 5, 2002 Tuesday Final EDITION

A future for the Montfort

SOURCE: The Ottawa Citizen

SECTION: CITY, Pg. B4

LENGTH: 475 words


After a five-year political and legal fight, supporters of the Montfort Hospital
are triumphant. Ontario Health Minister Tony Clement says the province was wrong
to try to close the hospital. The fight, however, took a lot out of the
Montfort's champions; it will take considerable effort to put this institution
back on its feet.

The Montfort is the east-end Ottawa hospital for francophone residents of
Eastern Ontario. At one stage, Ontario's Health Services Restructuring
Commission wanted to shut down the hospital. When that resulted in a national
uproar over minority rights, the commission watered down its recommendation,
suggesting that the Montfort stay open in a limited role. The hospital's
supporters rallied, there was a legal challenge and the hospital won. It won
again on appeal. The government finally has decided to stop the legal fight.

The hospital's victory has come at a stiff price. Its chief executive, Gerald
Savoie, says the Montfort has experienced about a 90-per-cent turnover in staff
over the last five years, a loss due largely to uncertainty over the hospital's
future. The loss of staff was worsened by the recruitment campaigns of other
hospitals, some of which used bonuses to recruit nurses.

The hospital has a deficit of $3.2 million on its $52-million-a-year budget. And
while the Montfort is supposed to be a 252-bed facility, it is only operating
between 160 and 200 beds. At times the Montfort's emergency department, which
did not close, has had to direct ambulances to other hospitals because it didn't
have the staff to handle them.

Montfort administrators also feel they have been left out of the action for the
last several years. For instance, when some rehabilitation beds were distributed
in Ottawa -- used by patients recovering from operations such as hip
replacements -- the Montfort did not get any of these beds. As well, officials
say its financial support per case from the Ministry of Health is lower than
what other hospitals receive. The hospital also has an ambitious $69-million
redevelopment and expansion project planned.

There is, though, some reason for optimism. The hospital is getting its renewed
mandate from the Ontario government at the same time as the Ottawa Hospital is
struggling to find ways to get routine medical cases out of its expensive,
high-tech beds. The Ottawa Hospital also has simply too many patients to handle.
In areas such as obstetrics, the Montfort may be able to ease the patient load
if it gets some staffing help from The Ottawa Hospital.

Ottawa needs community-hospital beds and the Montfort is there, with an eager
management and rave reviews for care from patients who have been surveyed by the
Ontario government. Its legal fight behind it, the Montfort can be an important
player in the future health of this city.

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Business

               Copyright 2002 CanWest Interactive, a division of
                      CanWest Global Communications Corp.
                              All Rights Reserved


