                              371 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                              China Business News

                       March 17, 2014 Monday 6:30 AM EST

Higher People's Court Guangxi: Fangchenggang Out of the New 'Mass Line' of the
Internet Age

LENGTH: 1104  words


Beijing, March 17 -- Since last year, Fangchenggang City Intermediate People's
Court accurately grasp the pulse of the times, the mass line applied to the
online world, sincerely to visit the people, listen to voice of the people,
observing public opinion, the people to worry, worked out a new "mass line" one
of the Internet age .



Since March 26, 2013 the official opening of the hospital in Sina official
microblogging site since released a total of 530 tweets, pink Sida 28,291
people. Hospital full use microblogging timely release legal advice, publicity
announcements, dynamic job information; occasional exposure for execution, the
trial webcast, court open days and other special reports, accepted their advice,
complaint; interaction with users, by users Commentary understand people's
concerns and points of interest in the work of the courts, timely response to
social concerns, so that the Court closer to the people, down to earth.

Trial live - to create "convenient court" on the phone

At 9:00 on November 12th 2013 and more attention to the hospital all the 28,000
Weibo users are on their mobile client to see such a real-time micro-Bo: "Hello
Hello, everyone, today we live our hospital Three people open court hearing the
appellant Liu  Long, Lu Jin refuses to accept Fangchenggang  ShangXi think
County People's Court (2013) Min Chu Zi No. 58 on motor vehicle accident
liability dispute case. case by the judge GUO Chuan-million Meng Zhi phase,
Acting Judge Liu Yu Adams formed a collegiate bench, GUO Chuan-million as the
presiding judge, clerk of court records ...... Liang Ching as "hospital
microblogging fans friends all know, this is the second instance in parallel
civil hospital together Cases courtroom microblogging live events.

The judge hearing the case in court, while the field hospital microblogging
managers also in the form of long microblogging engaged in real-time broadcast
graphics on Sina Weibo. Confirm the identity of the parties, both parties hear a
brief view of pleadings, summary cases the focus of controversy, the burden of
proof in all aspects of cross-examination, the court ordered the law, such as
the debate unfolds. To protect the privacy of the parties, microblogging
managers also will be the name, address, date of birth and other private
information in a timely processing technology, a process of trial and content
onto the Internet and to the public. Users can open anytime, anywhere mobile
client for legal cases of interest to a "sit", so that their true from one vivid
example of cases secondary to common legal knowledge, but also to exercise the
right of citizen oversight of the administration of justice, to achieve "
win-win "good results.

To effectively do microblogging live events, arrange for someone in charge of
the hospital every three days ahead of the trial were broadcast on Sina
"Fangchenggang City Intermediate People's Court," the official microblogging
notice, while creating "Fangchenggang trial live" micro topic within the scope
of the city The live event broadcast unified management and facilitate users in
advance to arrange a time and to listen.

Featured Stories - someone else's story, his inspiration

"In today's society, cohabitation, trial marriage, bastards and so appear more
and more around us, but when those cohabiting couple parted ways, these
illegitimate children how to protect the interests of the child's upbringing and
who is responsible? 2014 On March 10, Dongxing City People's Court together
successfully mediated illegitimate daughter alimony disputes. sides reached an
agreement to raise her daughter by the woman, the man to pay a monthly fee of
800 yuan to raise her daughter at least 18 years of age ...... "3 On 14 May, the
hospital recently closed a selection of grassroots courts of a Case, by selected
social cases, causing users to respect the moral and behavior of food for
thought.

To help people identify clear "the court summons fraud" and other scam, the
official website of the hospital in the courts, the official micro-Bo, the
Court's electronic bulletin boards and so many media widely published "on the
alert again beware of telephone fraud criminals announcement" on the Court
summons people to reflect frequent trick involved fraud carried Revealed provide
practical skills to deal with such fraud. Among them, the microblogging platform
has been broadcast Hechi Court, district courts and other brothers Jinchengjiang
Court, the Court unanimously friends people consider in a review, and timely
information to the public convenience and practical approach represents a full
and certainly welcome.

In addition, the hospital also actual work for the users to provide "action
guide", "little knowledge of the law" and other practical legal tips on the "SMS
scams" and other scam conducted Secret, to remind people not to be deceived.

Legal Advice - netizens doubt by a judge to answer your questions personally

"User 'on in the sky,' Hello, thank you for your trust and support of our work
as the other side is the illegal possession for the purpose of hiding the truth
with fictional facts or methods to cheat the large amount of public and private
property, constitutes fraud sin. 'large amount' from the criminal standard
formulated by the country, the national standards are not the same, and if you
think that the other suspect a crime, you can report directly to the local
public security organs to deal with. "

April 9, 2013, the hospital legal advice on the issue, "the pseudonym arrears,
is not suspected of fraud, owned by the public security organs under the
jurisdiction of the scope of no return" in Ningbo on the official micro-blog
users, promptly provide a more simple and feasible legal advice.

After receiving questions from the users, the hospital in time to coordinate
business court staff to provide professional legal advice by the network office
personnel dedicated to the reply. It is reported that the hospital has this
convenient service normalization, arrange a day to collect, collate information,
after replying to the relevant and timely summary of the trial judge to perform
first-line views. Microblogging platform to expand the use of legal advisory
activities, on-site legal advice to break through the restrictions of time,
space and other aspects of the past, so that people can stay at home and easily
relies instead on legal issues involving the interests closely to understand
that the court do Meanwhile the trial implementation of the initiative to assume
more social responsibility, but also to meet the people in the new era of higher
quality requirements of justice.

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2014 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


