                              367 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                      South China Morning Post (Hong Kong)

                                August 20, 1997

Legislator vow on inquest aid

BYLINE: JANE MOIR

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 469 words


Families who fear hospital negligence may have killed their relatives received a
pledge from medical legislator Dr Leong Che-hung last night to help them obtain
legal aid for inquests.

Patients' rights groups say the lack of legal assistance for obtaining coroner's
inquests means negligence cases may be going unrecorded. The groups fear the
actual number of inquests - there have been 57 over the past six years - does
not reflect the true situation.

"Families are not economically able to employ a lawyer (to obtain an inquest),"
Patients' Rights Association spokesman Yung Wai-mui said. "It's not fair, not
good for the relatives," she said, citing cases where families gave up because
of financial difficulties.

Dr Leong said last night: "Without legal help, it's very difficult for anybody,
especially when it concerns something quite sensitive for relatives who want to
go into detail and ask meaningful questions (in the court).

"At the end of the day we must push for legal aid," he said. "The Government has
promised to look into the whole issue."

Of the 57 inquests carried out between 1991 and 1996 on patients who died
following surgery or other medical procedures, 24 recorded death by natural
causes.

Fifteen verdicts of death by misadventure were recorded by the coroner, two
listed accidental death aggravated by lack of care, and another four were
accidents.

Ms Yung fears the lack of accessibility to the Coroner's Court and civil action
- only half her clients' applications are successful - means many cases go
unrecorded. She cited one case involving a 74-year-old woman who died after
receiving 50 milligrams more than the recommended dose of an antibiotic at
Grantham Hospital.

It fell upon the relatives to request an inquest.

A spokesman for Grantham said yesterday that the woman died of a heart failure
and that "the hospital considers the cause of death was unrelated to the
Gentamicin (antibiotic) given".

Dr Leong has also requested a report from the Hospital Authority assessing the
level of clinical supervision at public hospitals.

The Hospital Authority confirmed yesterday that an 82-year-old woman had died at
Queen Mary Hospital when oxygen was pumped into her veins instead of into an air
cushion.

An anaethesia tube and a tube to pump air into a cushion under the patient's
neck had been confused, deputy director Lawrence Lai Fook-ming told the
provisional legislature. An assistant had hooked up the wrong tube.

"We found out that the two tubes were mixed up as the cushion didn't inflate
when air was pumped into it", Mr Lai said. "We tried our best to save the
patient but to no avail."

He said the family had been told immediately after the incident in April and the
case had been referred to the Coroner's Court.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                  Copyright 1997 South China Morning Post Ltd.


