                              366 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                            South China Morning Post

                                 June 28, 2003

Six families to sue over virus deaths

BYLINE: Elaine Wu

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 390 words


At least six families of deceased Sars victims have decided to sue the Hospital
Authority over its handling of the outbreak.

Meanwhile, one more death was reported in Hong Kong yesterday.

A member of one family, who gave her name as Ms Lee, said that if her
grandmother had been diagnosed and given proper treatment sooner, she might have
survived.

Ms Lee's grandmother died after contracting Sars at the North District Hospital
last month.

"I want the North District Hospital or the Hospital Authority to admit that they
did something wrong," Ms Lee said.

Of the five other families considering a lawsuit, two had relatives treated in
Tuen Mun Hospital.

The remaining three were treated in North District Hospital, Tseung Kwan O
Hospital and Baptist Hospital.

The Society for Community Organisation is helping the families apply for legal
aid and following up their complaints with hospitals.

The Legal Aid Department said yesterday it had received four formal
applications, which would take three months to process.

"We are not really doing it for the money because you can never get back the
lives of these people," said Tim Pang Hung-cheong, a patients' right advocate at
the community organisation.

"What we want is to reveal the truth and to get justice."

Mr Pang said that people who might have a case against the hospitals involve
family members who contracted Sars through cross-infection at the hospital;
those who did not immediately receive treatment after showing obvious Sars
symptoms; and those who were not diagnosed with Sars until they died and did not
receive treatment.

He said those who contracted the disease at a hospital after late April would
have a stronger case because doctors were by then better equipped to handle the
outbreak.

Separately, a group of about 30 nurses who contracted and recovered from Sars
met legal advisers this week to see whether they have a case to sue their
employers for negligence.

Yesterday, a 58-year-old became the third resident from Sha Tin's Lek Yuen
Estate to die from Sars, the Department of Health said, bringing the total
number of deaths to 297.

The woman, who suffered from chronic illness, contracted the disease in the
residential building and was admitted to Alice Ho Miu Ling Nethersole Hospital
on May 15.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                  Copyright 2003 South China Morning Post Ltd.


