                              369 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                The Bristol Post

                             August 3, 2007 Friday

Let's start building treatment centre

BYLINE:  Vicki Mathias v.mathias

SECTION: Pg. 16

LENGTH: 435 words


Calls have been made for the health service to press ahead with plans for an
independent treatment centre in Emersons Green.

An appeal judge threw out a legal challenge to the proposed centre this week and
now South Gloucestershire's Labour leader is calling for NHS South West to move
on without further delay.

Councillor Roger Hutchinson (Lab, Filton) wants NHS South West, who are behind
the scheme, to push ahead with the centre, which will carry out about four per
cent of procedures currently undertaken in acute hospitals.

The Emersons Green independent sector treatment centre (ISTC) would be joined by
another in Hengrove and will be run jointly by the NHS and private firm, UK
Specialist Hospitals.

The idea is to speed up waiting times for patients who need orthopaedic, ear,
nose and throat, plastic surgery, gynaecology, general surgery and urology
services.

Legal proceedings launched by Rebecca Fudge, of Save Frenchay Hospital Group
(SFHG), delayed the signing of the contract for the centre.

Mr Hutchinson said: "Because this legal action was being pursued, the final
contract between the NHS and the preferred operator of the treatment centre was
not signed.

"The judges are explicit that progress has been 'unnecessarily' delayed, and
have even provided us with us a figure - approximately 33,000 of the procedures
and 52,000 of the diagnostic assessments which it was planned to provide each
year.

"In several places the judges drive home the point that the centre and this
court case have nothing to do with other changes to NHS hospital provision.

"Despite this, the legal action has created an air of uncertainty and it is
imperative that we now move on.

"The NHS must now press ahead with the modernisation programme outlined in the
Bristol Health Services Plan - which the judges said was 'the subject of proper
public consultation and has never been impugned'."

The three appeal judges criticised the cost of the legal action to the NHS but
also upheld part of the complaint, stating that there should have been more
consultation on the matter.

Colin Hunt, (Con, Emersons Green), is also involved in SFHG, and is puzzled that
a new centre is being built when there is already a hospital at Frenchay.

He said: "I don't want to stop an independent hospital being built, that's the
last thing I want.

"What I disagree with is that they are closing Frenchay and building a private
hospital less than a mile away, which seems illogical to me.

"The Government is telling us that we must build thousands and thousands of
houses in North Bristol and South Gloucestershire, yet they are closing the
hospital."

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 Bristol United Press
                              All Rights Reserved


