                              39 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                            October 28, 2014 Tuesday

Fired legal counsel for Luis sues hospital, CEO

LENGTH: 1662  words


Luis Hospital's former legal counsel - fired abruptly by Chief Executive Officer
Dr. Kendall Griffith on July 15 - is now suing the hospital, alleging that she
was terminated in retaliation for being a whistleblower.
Royette Russell, who had represented the hospital since June 2008, filed the
lawsuit against Luis Hospital and Griffith, in his professional and personal
capacities, in federal court on Wednesday.


Unfortunately, Kendall Griffith is a wonderful human being, but he should not be
running the hospital, said Lee Rohn, who is Russell's attorney. The problems
that came out and caused the crisis from CMS are the exact same problems that
Royette Russell as legal counsel for the board and hospital was telling him he
could not continue to do without getting decertification.
In addition, Russell is alleging in the 14-page complaint that the hospital
discriminated against her on the basis of her sex, in violation of federal and
local laws. The lawsuit also contends that the hospital and Griffith defamed and
slandered Russell and that they violated their duty of good faith and fair
dealing.
Russell is seeking unspecified damages, including punitive damages against
Griffith.
Griffith did not return multiple messages from The Daily News on Thursday
seeking comment about the lawsuit.
Thursday night, Griffith's executive assistant, Keith James, sent a message
saying Since Dr. Griffith is not in receipt of a copy of the document referenced
in your message this afternoon, he is not a position to comment on it at this
time.
CMS
Russell's firing came less than two weeks before the U.S. Centers for Medicare
and Medicaid Services, or CMS, conducted an inspection of the hospital from July
28 to Aug. 1.
Because of the findings from that inspection and because of the hospital's
previous, repeated inability to meet the standards in Medicare's Conditions of
Participation, CMS was on the brink of decertifying the hospital on Oct. 9.
CMS wound up granting a reprieve, though, postponing the decertification date to
Nov. 20 to give the hospital and the local government time to develop a systems
improvement agreement. If that agreement is executed by Nov. 20, the hospital
would have nine more months to implement the improvements.
At some point toward the end of that period, CMS will conduct a last-chance
survey.
The federal agency granted the reprieve a few days after Griffith and Luis
Hospital board chairman Anthony Ricketts, along with lawyer Deborah Gardner, who
the hospital retained to represent it in dealings with CMS, traveled to
Baltimore to meet with CMS officials and plead their case.  Lawsuit
Russell's lawsuit contends that Griffith discriminated against Russell because
she is a woman and that he created an extremely hostile work environment for
her.
It started with his refusing to treat her opinions or proposals with the respect
they were due and to be offended unless she agreed with virtually everything he
said, the lawsuit states.
Russell's lawsuit goes on to say that she began noticing how Griffith treated
her compared with how he treated male employees in the fall of 2013, and she
contends that her work environment became progressively more hostile as she
continued to proffer legal advice to Griffith.
The more plaintiff suggested that Griffith's course of action had legal flaws,
the more angry and hostile and rude he became towards plaintiff and the more
hostile the work environment became, the lawsuit says.
Russell contends she complained to Ricketts and to Chief Nursing Officer Justa
Encarnacion, but no real action was taken to stop the problem.
In addition, plaintiff was making valid complaints about how the hospital was
being run and pointing out that the actions being taken would result in legal or
regulatory actions against the hospital, the lawsuit contends. It characterizes
Russell as the de facto compliance officer for the hospital and says she had a
duty to receive and report complaints of wrongdoing.
Problems
The lawsuit lists a number of concerns that Russell says she brought up to
Griffith repeatedly until March 15 with no results, including:
- Failure to properly hire and fire persons.
- Failure to properly process hiring information.
- Failure to properly determine employees' pay.
- Apparent favoritism as to some employees over others.
- Not properly reporting matters and failure to follow procedures. It did not
say what those matters were.
Plaintiff made it clear that if Dr. Griffith did not cease the improper actions
they would have to be reported, the lawsuit states.
It also alleges that Griffith retaliated against Russell, refusing to meet with
her and removing her job responsibilities to oversee a number of departments.
March memo
The lawsuit also refers to a March 20 memo in which Russell says she pointed out
to Griffith multiple concerns she had as legal counsel and as de facto
compliance officer.
In the memo, according to the lawsuit, Russell made it clear that those problems
needed to be addressed or she was obligated to take action.
According to the lawsuit, the problems Russell mentioned in the memo included:
- That Griffith was allowing time and attendance to be abused and allowing a
hospital official to be paid regular pay while not coming to work, a violation
of hospital policy. Russell advised that the official should apply for sick
leave and had already pointed out this information previously, according to the
lawsuit.
- That a high-ranking doctor was being allowed to collect sick pay even though
he had resigned and as such was not eligible for sick pay.
- Irregularities in hiring and firing, including not having all employees go
through the same basic process regarding compensation based on competencies, and
salaries being changed without proper justification which could put the hospital
in problems with or the loss of CMS benefits.
- That Griffith was allowing employees to work without signed contracts, and
Russell had gone to Human Resources about the problem.
- A failure to check on the actual qualifications of one of the higher-level
managers in a non-medical position.
- That employees were being laid-off and called back without proper vetting with
the finance department while vendors continue to be owed more than $50 million.

In the memo, Russell explained to Dr. Griffith that her actual client was the
hospital and as such she was required to take action against Dr. Griffith for
improper actions if necessary, the lawsuit said. She reminded Dr. Griffith of
what had happened at the Roy Lester Schneider Hospital when the CEO, Miller, had
been allowed unfettered power.
The lawsuit states that Griffith was visibly shaking when he saw the memo but
never responded to it and refused to discuss it with the Plaintiff nor correct
the failure to investigate malpractice complaints or to stop improperly hiring
physicians without the proper credentials.
Among a multitude of problems that CMS pointed out in its inspection report were
that six physicians received temporary privileges and were improperly allowed to
practice medicine by Griffith, the interim chief medical officer and the chief
of service without being approved by the territorial hospital board.
The CMS report also found that while the territorial hospital board was
ineffective and did not exercise proper oversight, the board also was unaware of
certain quality of care issues because no one reported those issues to the
board.
Legal advice
Russell's lawsuit alleges that Griffith became more hostile toward Russell and
instructed staff not to consult with her for legal advice on at least two
occasions, including the issue of the dead baby that the press was inquiring
about and which the failure to properly investigate was a CMS violation.
The CMS report noted that in April, hospital staff threw out the remains of a
22-week-old fetus, either in the laundry or rubbish, and the hospital's
investigation was unable to determine the final disposition of the fetal
remains.
Russell's lawsuit also alleges that Griffith ignored her counsel, which resulted
in him mishandling the issue of whether or not to suspend Dr. Appleyard.
Dr. Deborah Appleyard is a physician specializing in spine and orthopedic care
and surgeries who was hired by Luis Hospital in August 2011. She has filed a
lawsuit that claims her complaints about others' failure to meet standards of
care led to her being harassed and ultimately suspended.
Russell's lawsuit contends that in relation to Appleyard, Russell advised that
Griffith was not following the proper procedures and would cause the hospital to
be sued.
The lawsuit alleges Griffith did not follow the advice, did not follow proper
procedures and suspended Appleyard, which has resulted in the hospital being
sued and incurring expenses.
Appleyard's lawsuit is pending.
Increasing tension
Russell's lawsuit describes increasing tension and an increasingly hostile
environment as time went on.
It mentions an incident in May, when Russell contends Griffith came into an
emergency executive manager meeting, stating that the board was meeting with the
governor that day. According to the lawsuit, Griffith said the governor told the
board that his legal counsel told him that the legal counsel for the hospital
had called the governor's legal counsel and threatened that if the contract for
financial consulting services was not signed she would embarrass the governor.
The lawsuit contends another hospital staff member actually had made the call
but that Griffith, without investigating, determined that plaintiff had done as
she had been accused of.
It also says that Russell continued to note noncompliance issues as to Dr.
Griffith including refusing to follow the procedures at the hospital that
operated as check and balances.
It also points to various issues that Russell contends showed discrimination
against her because she is a woman.
Ultimately, a little after 5 p.m. July 15, Grif 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide
                Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.(Syndigate.info)
                              All Rights Reserved


