                              365 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                      The Gold Coast Bulletin (Australia)

                            October 6, 2011 Thursday
                                B - Main Edition

Hospital in libel battle

BYLINE: STEPHANIE BEDO bedos@goldcoast.com.au

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 443  words


HEALTH

ONE of the Gold Coast's top hospitals is fighting to remove from the internet
material claiming its staff were responsible for the death of a patient.

The hospital says the material is defamatory.

Paradise Point man Charles Dupois launched a crusade against Allamanda Private
Hospital three months ago after his father, Antoine Chakra, died unexpectedly on
July 11.

Mr Chakra, 89, had been admitted to the rehabilitation department on June 22
following extensive cancer treatment.

Mr Dupois and his family claim doctors acted inadequately in Mr Chakra's
treatment and care.

Mr Dupois, who has a background in film and television, has since gone on to
make several YouTube videos critical of the hospital and its staff.

The videos were removed from the web after Minter Ellison lawyers, on behalf of
Allamanda's owner Healthscope, warned Mr Dupois to take them down.

But Mr Dupois has since created a new website detailing his father's lengthy
medical history and naming all medical staff and executives he claims were
involved in the treatment of Mr Chakra.

Healthscope is aware of the site and is taking legal action to have it removed,
as well as further references on search engine Google.

Yesterday the company confirmed its strong legal stance on the issue, saying it
was important staff were protected from potential defamation.

Numerous hospital sources have told the Bulletin several junior and senior
Allamanda staff members have been threatened and intimidated by Mr Dupois.

He denied the claims.

``I have not been rude to anyone whatsoever,'' he said. ``I was never aggressive
or threatening in any form or shape.

``They're only saying that because they don't have a leg to stand on.''

Gold Coast CIB acting inspector Chris Toohey said police investigated Mr
Chakra's death before handing the case to the coroner.

He said police had no further involvement in the matter.

Yesterday a Department of Justice spokesman confirmed the Coroner was awaiting
the results of an autopsy report to determine whether Mr Chakra's death required
further investigation.

Mr Dupois said he was taking legal action against the hospital and its staff. He
said Healthscope would not succeed in having his content removed from the
internet.

``They can pull it down but it's going to go back up - a million times if it has
to - until the truth comes out,'' he said.

One of Mr Dupois's supporters, Dr John Tan, a cardiothoracic surgeon based at
Paradise Point, said there were some points in his case that were valid.

``I don't think Charles was properly consulted,'' he said.

``This is not good publicity and as far as I can see it, Allamanda has done
nothing to defend its position.''

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GCB


                   Copyright 2011 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


