                              370 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                       The Herald (Sharon, Pennslyvania)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             March 9, 2017 Thursday

Latest Sharon Regional deal easier

BYLINE: Michael Roknick, The Herald, Sharon, Pa.

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 570 words


March 09--SHARON -- Sharon Regional Health System is looking for a healthy deal.

This isn't about health -- it's all about business. With 1,100 full-time
equivalent employees, Sharon Regional is Mercer County's largest employer.
That's why a pending agreement to sell the healthcare provider has drawn wide
interest.

But with Sharon Regional having gone through a sale just three years ago,
questions have surfaced whether this latest deal is different. And the answer is
yes -- this sale process will be much easier.

Sharon Regional's owner, Community Health Systems Inc., reached a sales
agreement last month to sell Sharon Regional and seven other of its hospital
systems to Boston-based Steward Health Care.

The regional deal includes the Ohio hospitals Northside Medical Center in
Youngstown, Trumbull Memorial Hospital in Warren, and Hillside Rehabilitation
Hospital in Howland Township. Also on the list are Easton (Pa.) Memorial
Hospital and three sites in Florida: Wuesthoff Medical Centers in Melbourne and
Rockledge and Sebastian River Medical in Sebastian.

Facing a major debt load and lower profits, Tennessee-based CHS said last year
it was looking to sell a number of its hospital systems.

CHS bought Sharon Regional three years ago. But from a legal and business point
of view, this latest deal has major differences.

Probably the biggest contrast is that the for-profit CHS bought Sharon Regional
when it was a nonprofit organization. When such a situation occurs, there are
mountains of legal hurdles at the federal and state level that must be met.

The CHS sales agreement had to be submitted to the state Attorney General's
office for review. The deal was given the OK by the AG's office and shortly
later also got the required approval from the Mercer County Court of Common
Pleas.

While at times that legal process may have been cumbersome, it actually went
fairly smoothly.

By contrast, Jameson Hospital in New Castle found itself at odds with the AG's
office over its sale to UPMC. Both organizations are nonprofits. The sale took
more than a year of legal wrangling before all the parties reached an agreement.

Another big difference in sales agreements is that CHS bought the assets of
Sharon Regional from its nonprofit ownership, while Steward is looking to buy
the healthcare provider as an ongoing, private business.

Under the asset sale, all the physical properties of Sharon Regional from its
hospital all the way down to tongue depressors became the possession of CHS. But
it did not take over all the legacy costs, including such things as employee
pensions and ongoing legal suits.

Instead, those costs remained with the remnants of the nonprofit Sharon
Regional, which took the name of Christian H. Buhl Legacy Trust. After all those
costs had been dealt with, the trust had $21.9 million left over.

Last May Mercer County Judge Christopher St. John approved a petition to
transfer the funds to the new Buhl Regional Health Foundation. The foundation
will use the funds for health programs to serve the community.

Steward and Sharon Regional are for-profit businesses, so the money that changes
hands in the upcoming sale will be from their respective owners.

No sales price has been given for Sharon Regional. The sale is expected to be
completed in the upcoming months.

___ (c)2017 The Herald (Sharon,Pa) Visit The Herald (Sharon,Pa) at
www.sharonherald.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20170309-XS-Latest-Sharon-Regional-deal-easier-0309-20170309

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: XS


                           Copyright 2017 The Herald


