                              375 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                            i-Independent Print Ltd

                               November 21, 2014
                                 First Edition

Hospital threatens to evict elderly patients;
COVER STORY

BYLINE: Ian Johnston

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 487 words


A hospital is threatening to take legal action to evict mainly elderly patients
whose relatives refuse to take them home when they are well enough to leave.

An official at Royal Bournemouth Hospital said one family had asked staff to
"keep hold" of a relative so they could go on holiday to Turkey for two weeks.

However, a recent report by Healthwatch Dorset included comments from patients
treated by the same hospital trust who claimed they felt under pressure to leave
before they were ready.

Katie Whiteside, a spokesman for the hospital, said: "At the moment, we have
relatives coming back telling us they don't like the decor of care homes, or
they don't like the member of staff who met them at the door. Sometimes they are
decorating the house or having a 'granny annexe' built and they know that, while
the patients are here, they are being fed, watered and looked after."

On Wednesday, there were 70 people on the wards who did not need to be there and
about half had somewhere suitable to be, according to the hospital.

Patients who are well enough to leave are to be given a week's notice to go or
potentially face legal action.

"We would be in a position to commence legal proceedings and formally evict a
patient if that was necessary. It would be an absolute last resort but it's
something we are in a position to do with the solicitors here at the trust," Ms
Whiteside said.

She said seriously ill patients had sometimes had to wait on trolleys or in
corridors and operations had been cancelled because of a lack of beds.

Dr Louise Irvine, of the National Health Action Party, who is standing against
Health Secretary Jeremy Hunt at the next general election, said: "Hospitals
throughout the country are being very tightly squeezed financially and suffering
cuts in beds so there is very little slack in the system. To make matters worse,
hospitals are penalised if they keep on patients for any longer than agreed
time-frames," she said, stressing she could not comment on individual cases.

Ben Grower, a local Labour councillor, said Bournemouth hospital was "under
pressure" but said threatening legal action was wrong. "It is not the patient's
fault that social services don't have the funds to meet their needs," he said.
"There will always be the one odd case of unacceptable bed-blocking ?? but any
action by Bournemouth hospital trust like this is a sledgehammer to crack a
nut."

Martyn Webster, manager of Healthwatch Dorset, the local health and care
watchdog, said: "People need to work together to sort this - the hospital
working with patient's families, carers, friends, and other people like social
services, community groups and charities to give patients the support they
need."

No one at the hospital was available for comment last night.

Royal Bournemouth and Christchurch Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust reported in
June that its budget deficit was at £652,000 in the first month of this
financial year.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: III


                    Copyright 2014 Independent Print Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


