                              381 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 11, 1995

LEGAL AID FOR PATIENTS GIVEN LSD

BYLINE: Clare Dyer Legal Correspondent

SECTION: THE GUARDIAN HOME PAGE; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 907 words


DOZENS of people given LSD in mental hospitals in the 1950s and 1960s have won
legal aid to investigate a possible claim for compensation.

The drug was administered to an estimated 4,500 patients in Britain, mainly with
symptoms of depression. Some claim to be still suffering side effects, including
flashbacks (mentally reliving experiences), psychoses and paranoia, more than 30
years later.

LSD, first used therapeutically with US alcoholics in the early 1950s, was
thought by some psychiatrists at the time to help patients regress to a
childlike state, allowing access to their "inner being" for treatment purposes.
Psychiatrists now recognise that the drug, banned in 1966, can tip those already
predisposed that way into schizophrenia.

Legal aid has been granted to the law firm Alexander Harris, which specialises
in medical negligence. The firm, which has asked a consultant psychiatrist to
research the background to the medical use of LSD, took on the case after being
approached by Ken Purchase, Labour MP for Wolverhampton North East.

Mr Purchase, who has compiled a dossier of nearly 80 cases, said: "The more I
looked into this, the more I was concerned about what had happened to people."

Psychiatric use of LSD in Britain was pioneered at Powick hospital in Malvern,
Hereford and Worcester, where about 700 people are thought to have received it.

Three other hospitals - Clifton in York, Marlborough hospital in Wiltshire and
Roffey Park in Lincolnshire - were leading centres, but the drug was used by
more than 70 doctors in Britain.

If the case goes ahead claims will be launched against the health authorities
responsible for the hospitals.

Mr Myers said: "One of the issues is the extent to which individuals were warned
of side effects." Georgina Lanaway, of Whitby, North Yorkshire, given the drug
in 1963 after she was admitted to Clifton hospital with post-natal depression,
said: "They just told me they were giving me an injection to find out what was
making me ill." A nurse told her later it was LSD.

The past 32 years of her life are a catalogue of unhappiness: two failed
marriages, suicide attempts and several "nervous breakdowns". Now aged 50, she
has been stable for the past two years on Prozac after undergoing more than 30
sessions of electric shock therapy.

The claimants' main hurdle will be to prove that the LSD and not the illnesses
for which they were treated caused their later problems. They will also have to
show that doctors were negligent in the way they used the drug.

One expert who has reviewed the research papers on LSD said these showed that
people who took the drug could have flashbacks and other side effects years
later.

Malcolm Lader, professor of clinical psychopharmacology at the University of
London's Institute of Psychiatry, said: "Reviews of the literature would suggest
a proportion of people do get continuing problems of this type - flashbacks,
bouts of depression." A number of side effects would have been documented by the
late 1950s, he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1995 Guardian Newspapers Limited


