                              376 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             July 18, 1997, Friday

LEGAL EAGLES SWOOP ON THE GRAVY TRAIN;
ITA O'KELLY-BROWNE'S COLUMN

BYLINE: Ita O'Kelly-Browne

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1880 words


As the country reels from the Haughey revelations at the Payments To Politicians
Tribunal, it seems that we are on course for yet another tribunal.

But while Bertie Ahern might think that we need another hugely expensive
tribunal, the truth surely is that most of us could think of far better and more
urgent uses for public money.

Bertie said this week that he is deeply unhappy about what he heard during
Charlie Haughey's evidence at the Tribunal.

And his solution is another tribunal, once again funded by the taxpayer.

First we had the Beef Tribunal which lavishly lined the pockets of the legal
profession.

Then the same well-heeled legal eagles jumped back on the gravy at the Payments
To Politicians Tribunal.

They must be smacking their lips at the thought of a third bite of the cherry.

While millions of pounds are spent on establishing which rich businessman gave
what to which politician, our hospitals are being quietly shut down due to lack
of funding.

Tallaght has the same population as Limerick city and has waited for over a
decade for a hospital of its own.

This is now about to become a reality. But to make it happen the rest of
Dublin's hospitals are being closed down one by one.

Already gone are Dr Steven's, Marcier's, Sir Patrick Dunn's and Jervis Street.
And on the way out in the coming year are the Meath Hospital, Baggot Street,
Harcourt Street Children's Hospital and most likely the Adelaide too.

What this means is that almost everyone on the south side of the city will now
have to travel to Tallaght for hospital treatment.

For the elderly and those with children who do not have cars, this means a
ghastly wait for a bus.

Why is the Government closing down our city centre hospitals at a time when this
area is being regenerated?

More people live in the centre of Dublin today than ever before.

Yet most of us will now be forced to travel around ten miles to the outskirts of
the city to get to a hospital.

It would only cost around pounds 1million per year to keep the likes of the
Meath Hospital open with around 100 beds. Compare that to the pounds 35 million
cost of the Beef Tribunal.

I am quite sure that I speak for the majority of people when I say that we want
hospitals rather than tribunals.

I would certainly far rather have a local hospital than find out who gave
Charlie Haughey financial gifts over the last 30 years.

At this stage, I feel a bit like Rhett Butler did in Gone With The Wind.
Frankly, I don't give a damn.

DI CAN'T CHANGE HER LEOPARDSKIN SPOTS

For a woman who claims to spend most of her life avoiding being photographed,
Princess Diana sure as hell picked an eye-catching outfit for the cameras this
week.

Well I ask you - a leopardskin swimsuit is hardly a subtle way for a woman to
avoid male attentions, is it?

My advice to her, if she does decide to go and live abroad, is to avoid Ireland
at all costs.

Celebrity status holds little currency here and she could very easily end up
being ignored.

Somebody once described the aristocracy as being rich and thick.

Perhaps they should have included bored and overindulged as well.

EXIT STAGE LEFT

For a boy who grew up in a corporation house in Donnycarney and went to a
Christian Brother's School, you've got to admit Charlie Haughey does have a
certain class and style.

First he outwitted the entire media by arriving three hours early for the
Tribunal in Dublin Castle.

And then even though it was his darkest hour, he emerged and gave one of his
famously regal waves to the waiting crowds. If we are honest, we all loved every
tingling moment of it.

Even though he admitted that he lied through his teeth, CJ never lost his famous
composure.

He kept his gimlet eye on the matters in hand and had the brass neck to feign
memory loss.

Then he strolled out to his waiting chauffeur driven car in a scene of
Shakespearean high drama.

Will we ever see his likes again. Probably not.

Decency by-pass

I witnessed a sad sight this week when a drunken woman fell in the middle of the
road.

Astonishingly,

when the lights turned green, most of the traffic swerved to by-pass her and
continued on its way - with the honourable exception of a taxi driver.

If the Celtic Tiger means that we have lost all decency, then let's please have
our scrawny cat back.

Crime pays..

As most of us have suspected for a long time, more than 80 per cent of
burglaries, muggings and theft from cars are carried out by drug abusers to pay
for their habit.

The only way to solve such crime is to first solve the drug problem.  A major
investment in drug treatment programmes is needed alongside a programme to
eradicate the abundant street supply of heroin.

When will we learn?

It comes as a shock to learn that 25 per cent of the Irish population cannot
read or write to a functional level.

Yet university fees were recently abolished, which means that many of those who
are more than able to pay no longer have to.

As a result there is less cash in the pot to pay for a set-up of much- needed
adult literacy programmes.

Education should be for all.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DI: Avoid Ireland;; CASUALTY: Hospitals are closing while politicians
argue at expensive tribunals

                            Copyright 1997 MGN Ltd.


