                              40 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                         Blacktown Advocate (Australia)

                            June 29, 2016 Wednesday
                               Blacktown Edition

Free advice to patients helps lift legal stress

BYLINE: Jessica Oxford

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 323  words


A one-stop shop for people with medical issues

FREE legal advice is now available for pregnant women and young mums at
Blacktown Hospital, a first for western Sydney.

The Health Justice Partnership between Legal Aid NSW and Western Sydney Health
District came into effect on June 21.

Senior family lawyer Ruth Pilkinton said the partnership was aimed at women in
need but was open to other patients and staff.

"Legal Aid gives free legal advice to patients on family law issues including
domestic violence, parenting, and care and protection issues," she said.

"The legal advice service is primarily available to women attending the
antenatal and maternity unit at Blacktown Hospital, but will also help other
inpatients, day patients, their family members and staff.

"People will be connected to a Legal Aid lawyer at the hospital to help them
resolve, or lessen, their legal issues and, where possible, prevent court
action.

"Research has shown that medical and legal issues are often linked; legal
problems can lead to stress and ill health, and long-term health problems often
also create legal issues." Blacktown Hospital social worker Anna Fainuu said it
would make it easier to address a person's overall wellbeing.

"That's the great thing about the partnership, it can feel like a one-stop shop
for people with medical issues," she said. "The hospital has support for mental
health and drug health and will now have legal services on site.

"When people are in hospital and have personal issues, they have so many
competing concerns and it can be quite overwhelming.

"These patients dealing with Family and Community Services were often from
marginalised communities with high socioeconomic disadvantage, so having ready
access to a legal service has greatly enhanced the support we're able to offer."
The Legal Aid lawyer will be present at Blacktown Hospital on Tuesdays and can
be contacted every day on 1800 551 589FREE LEGAL AID 1800 551 589

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Blacktown Advocate


                   Copyright 2016 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


