                              383 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                 Chennai Online

                          October 7, 2016 6:30 AM EST

O.Panneerselvam to be Tamil Nadu's new Chief Minister?

LENGTH: 285  words


Chennai: There is no need for temporary Chief Minister in Tamil Nadu till such
time that Chief Minister J. Jayalalithaa gets fully recovered and resumes normal
activities, said a spokesperson of the ruling AIADMK.

"There is no legal necessity for that, he added.

The 68-year-old Jayalalithaa was admitted to Apollo Hospitals on September 22
for fever and dehydration.

On Thursday, the consensus opinion of all experts at the Apollo Hospitals was
that Jayalalithaa will require a longer stay in the hospital and the line of
treatment given to Jayalalithaa should be continued.

"The present treatment regimen includes continued respiratory support,
neubilisation, drugs to decongest the lungs, antibiotics, nutrition, general
nursing care and supportive therapy," Apollo Hospitals said.

The hospital said Jayalalithaa is making gradual progress but did not say for
how long she may have to stay in the hospital.

Speaking in pressmeet, AIADMK spokesperson Avadi Kumar said: "There is no need
for a temporary or substitute Chief Minister at the current juncture. There is
also no legal necessity."

According to him, Jayalalithaa is conscious and is recovering.

Kumar said when there were legal hurdles in Jayalalithaa holding the Chief
Minister's post, Finance Minister O. Panneerselvam was sworn in as the Chief
Minister.

Once the legal problems were sorted out, Jayalalithaa was sworn in as the Chief
Minister again.

He said AIADMK founder, the late M.G. Ramachandran, won the assembly election in
1984 while he was in a hospital in Brooklyn, US. He was sworn in as Chief
Minister on his arrival.

Kumar said the late DMK leader Murasoli Maran was in hospital for a long time as
a Union Minister without portfolio till he died.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


 Copyright 2016 Chennai Interactive Business Services (P) Ltd., distributed by
                                  Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


