                              374 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                 The Australian

                            June 25, 2008 Wednesday
                              N - Canberra Edition

Surgeon sued over `botched' operation

BYLINE: Milanda Rout

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 331 words


A PAST patient of Thomas Kossmann, the former head of The Alfred hospital's
trauma unit, is suing the Melbourne doctor for damages over allegedly botched
shoulder surgery.

Joseph Bemelmans has launched legal action against Professor Kossmann in the
Victorian County Court in what is believed to be the first medical negligence
case filed against the surgeon.

The writ emerged a day after law firm Slater & Gordon flagged legal claims of
negligence against the German-born surgeon and The Alfred hospital by other
former patients.

Professor Kossmann resigned from his position as head of trauma surgery at the
Melbourne hospital in April after a damning peer review found he had conducted
risky surgery and had exaggerated his experience on his resume.

The three-month investigation, led by orthopedic surgeon Bob Dickens, also found
Professor Kossmann invoiced Victoria's Transport Accident Commission, the
WorkCover Authority and Medicare Australia for operations he did not perform and
surgery that was unnecessary. It also alleged he had put lives at risk with
bungled surgery that involved grave errors in more than half of the 24 cases
examined.

Documents lodged with the County Court this week and obtained by The Australian
reveal Mr Bemelmans is suing Professor Kossmann, the operators of The Alfred
hospital, Bayside Health, Epworth Hospital as well as another surgeon, and two
other hospitals for medical negligence.

Mr Bemelmans claims both the surgeons and hospitals ``failed to provide
appropriate treatment and care'' and the failure to do this resulted in their
negligence.

His lawyer, Sharon McRae, said the legal action was still in the ``preliminary
stages'' and they had not yet served the writ on Professor Kossmann or the other
five parties named in it.

Professor Kossmann has denied any wrongdoing and has blamed complaints from
doctors about his surgery on competitive jealousy. A spokeswoman last night said
Professor Kossmann was unaware of any legal action against him.

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: AUS


                   Copyright 2008 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


