                              378 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                           December 12, 1993, Sunday

LEGAL AID CUTS COVER UP HOSPITAL NEGLIGENCE

SECTION: THE OBSERVER NEWS PAGE; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 934 words


DOCTORS are getting away with serious blunders, and patients are increasingly
forced to put up with the consequences, as new legal aid rules make it harder to
sue for medical negligence.

The cost of going to law is deterring more and more people from seeking redress,
according to lawyers and patients' groups. Hospitals and National Health Service
trusts are also accused of deliberately using delaying tactics to increase legal
bills further and frighten potential complainants from going to court.

Some patients have suffered serious injuries and even lost their jobs or homes
because of medical negligence, according to the pressure group Action for
Victims of Medical Accidents (Avma). Keith Miles, the association's deputy
director, said: 'Doctors and hospitals are getting away with it. Because of
restrictions on legal aid, the ultimate option of going to court is now
effectively cut off.

'It is a scandal. Hospitals know that patients will not take action without
legal aid. Some are offering derisory ex gratia payments in the hope they will
go away. The worst of it is that in many cases patients cannot even afford to
find out whether they have a case in law.'

Lawyers who specialise in medical negligence are concerned at the number of
people abandoning legal action. 'It is becoming a serious problem. We are trying
to get justice, but it is getting more and more difficult,' said Ann Alexander,
a leading medical negligence lawyer.

Legal aid, the government scheme to help pay clients' legal bills, is intended
to promote better access to justice for people on low incomes. But to qualify,
plaintiffs must show they have a disposable income of less than pounds 7,500 a
year and savings of less than pounds 8,560.

In April, thousands of people lost their eligibility for legal aid when the
rules were changed. The basic disposable income below which legal aid is free
was cut to pounds 2,294. Above this, clients have to pay monthly
'contributions'. Previously, contributions were limited to a year; now they have
to be made for the duration of the case.

In addition, even the most perfunctory free legal advice is now restricted to
people earning less than pounds 61.50 a week ( pounds 3,198 a year), except for
those on income support or family credit. Someone injured as a result of a
hospital accident and receiving invalidity benefits of more than pounds 61.50 a
week would not be eligible for free legal advice.

The main problem in medical negligence cases is that lawyers cannot tell early
on whether their client has a strong case. In most instances, medical experts
are called in to assess the evidence and advise on whether there may be a case.
This can cost pounds 3,000 to pounds 5,000. But legal aid does not start until a
writ has been issued.

Even when clients are granted legal aid, they are frequently asked to contribute
up to pounds 180 a month for the duration of the case. Medical negligence cases
routinely last six or seven years.

The Law Society, the solicitors' governing body, estimates that 140,000 people
have been affected by changes in the legal aid rules, of which around 3,000 may
have been involved in medical negligence cases.

Roger Wicks, a London solicitor who is helping to set up a Law Society panel on
medical negligence, said: 'A vast number of people are not even getting as far
as having their cases investigated to see if there is good reason to go to
court. Anybody with a claim against the medical profession faces innumerable
obstacles from the moment the mistake is made, and this is making it worse.'

Jean Traynor, of the National Association of Health Authorities and Trusts, said
hospitals did not try to avoid paying compensation. 'People claiming damages
might think hospitals drag their feet. The problem is more with lawyers who make
cases last for as long as possible,' she said.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 1994

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1993 Guardian Newspapers Limited


