                              377 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                             August 27, 2007 Monday

Widower hopes legal action against hospital will act as a wake-up call

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 395 words


Heart-broken Bill Clewlow has launched legal proceedings against the hospital
where his wife of almost 60 years contracted a deadly infection.

Millicent Clewlow, of Clayton Road, Clayton, was diagnosed with clostridium
difficile (C-diff) before she died at the University Hospital of North
Staffordshire.

Now Mr Clewlow, who says he is still struggling to come to terms with his wife's
death, has asked solicitor James Evans to pursue a legal claim against the
hospital.

He said: "My case is now in the hands of James A Evans & Co, Newcastle. I have
no doubt he will deal with this matter."

Mrs Clewlow, who would have celebrated her 60th wedding anniversary the day
after she died on August 1, had originally been admitted to the hospital in
January to have a toe amputated.

The surgery was needed after it became infected as a result of her diabetes, but
she had to return in April to have part of her leg removed.

Soon after the operation, Mr Clewlow says his wife developed diarrhoea, from
which she suffered until she died.

Tests for C-diff proved negative until just two days before her death.

Mr Clewlow added: "To everyone in North Staffordshire - wake up and do something
about this problem."

The hospital says it has yet to receive a legal claim from Mr Clewlow's
solicitors.

A hospital spokesman said: "Staff in all clinical areas have worked very hard to
reduce infection but, while cases of MRSA have reduced, C-diff cases have risen.

"In addition to the current infection control procedures in place, new
initiatives have been introduced.

"New cases of C-diff are reported to the chief executive on a daily basis, along
with actions taken in respect of each patient. This ensures that the protocols
are being followed.

"Two external experts are working with the board and clinicians to share
effective practice that is showing results in some other hospitals.

"There is no quick fix in reducing hospital acquired infections. Based on its
current numbers this year, the hospital is unlikely to achieve its target
reduction of C-diff, but the additional measures that have been put in place
should have a major impact."

Chief executive Julia Bridgewater said: "The care and safety of our patients is
my first concern and I am well aware of how important the control of infection
is to patients and their families.

"I am determined that we will achieve the best results we can."

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                      Copyright 2007 The Sentinel (Stoke)
                              All Rights Reserved


