                              379 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               February 15, 2005

The final insult

BYLINE: MATTHEW BAYLEY

SECTION: ED_1ST; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 476 words


PARENTS whose dead babies' organs were removed without their permission could be
left with as little as Pounds 500 compensation, it emerged yesterday.

Health Service officials are refusing to pay the legal bills of half the 1,348
families who won a Pounds 3.3million settlement last year.

As a result, some of the claimants, who were awarded Pounds 2,448 each in the
High Court deal, could be left with as little as Pounds 500.

Mr Justice Cage allowed the 1,348 families to claim damages for psychological
distress in his judgment last March.

But the NHS is refusing to pay legal bills averaging Pounds 1,500 each for more
than half of those involved, arguing that they were not psychologically
traumatised.

To make matters worse, the Legal Services Commission is demanding half the
parents return some of the legal aid it gave to fund their court action against
the NHS.

The protracted wrangling has outraged the families.

'The NHS is just rubbing salt into the wounds,' said Matt Redmond, whose
six-year-old daughter Karen had her heart removed without his permission at the
Diana, Princess of Wales, Children's Hospital in Birmingham.

'This has never been about the money. We have been fighting to get a change in
the legislation.' added Mr Redmond, who runs the Stolen Hearts Bereaved Parents'
Group.

'We are disgusted at how the NHS has treated us. Don't they realise no one is
going to get rich over this except lawyers? They are wasting taxpayers' money.
They're not suffering on a daily basis like we are.' The scandal broke six years
ago when it was revealed that for decades doctors had been removing dead
children's organs for research without parental permission.

The practice was uncovered initially at Liverpool's Alder Hey Hospital and
Bristol Royal Infirmary. But it later emerged that it was common in hospitals
across the country.

While more than 1,000 parents at Alder Hey received Pounds 5,000 compensation
each, victims elsewhere were forced to take their case to the High Court.

The NHS offered the families a Pounds 3.3million deal after a judge ruled
doctors acted illegally in retaining children's body parts during postmortem
examinations without their parents' permission.

The parents say if they are forced to settle their own legal costs, the
compensation they will be left with will be derisory. A spokesman for the NHS
Litigation Authority said yesterday: 'We have agreed the amount of compensation
with the families involved but we have not agreed lawyers' costs. Negotiations
are continuing.' Other hospitals involved in the case include the John Radcliffe
in Oxford, Addenbrooke's in Cambridge, Southampton General, the University
Hospital of Wales, East Kent Hospitals Trust, Lewisham University and the Royal
Liverpool Children's Hospital.

m.bayley@dailymail.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: KAREN REDMOND: HEART WAS TAKEN

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2005 Associated Newspapers Ltd.


