                              388 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                  Burton Mail

                           January 7, 2004 Wednesday

Hospital Pooh sticker down

BYLINE: DAVID POWLES

LENGTH: 346 words


BOSSES at Burton's Queen's Hospital today confirmed that they had removed an
image of Winnie The Pooh which could have landed them in a legal wrangle with
movie giant Disney.

The Belvedere Road hospital has taken down a sticker of the popular children's
cartoon character which adorned its pharmacy door after it was revealed that the
image might have breached Disney's copyright. Managers are also planning to
phase out boxes of medicines distributed to accident and emergency patients from
the store labelled with home-made pictures of the bear. Hospital bosses said
today that they had heard nothing from Disney and "did not expect to do so" but
had taken down the stickers as a precaution. Meanwhile, Disney confirmed that no
legal action would be taken. Hospital spokesman Deryck Wilson, said: "There has
been no contact from Disney over this and we do not expect to receive any. "The
sticker has been removed from the door where it was seen. Other material may
take longer to track down and remove, but it will eventually be phased out. "The
majority of schools, nurseries and hospitals throughout the country have, from
time to time, used cartoon images in this way. While this may technically be a
breach of copyright, we would be very surprised if action were ever taken.
"Nevertheless, we don't want to risk any offence. To avoid any trouble or
problems we will remove all of the relevant items."   Last week, Walt Disney UK
launched an investigation after it emerged that the hospital had been using the
picture of the fictional bear because the initials POOH stood for Pharmacy Out
Of Hours.  The multi-national company warned that Queen's could face legal
action because it had no formal agreement to use the images. However, a
spokeswoman for the firm said that while they had been made aware of the matter
"no legal action would take place". Ironically, Disney itself has until recently
been involved in legal action over Winnie The Pooh. Last year a judge in the US
barred the granddaughter of its author, AA Milne, from reclaiming the marketing
rights to the book.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BM


                    Copyright 2004 Iliffe News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


