                              390 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                    December 18, 1994, Sunday, City Edition

Rape lawsuits face complex test

BYLINE: JIM ROSS

SECTION: CITRUS TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 890 words

DATELINE: INVERNESS



As they gear up for a second round in the legal arena, women suing Citrus
Memorial Hospital and its infamous former employee, Bruce Alan Young, will be
forced to change their strategy and procedures.

Why? Because proceeding in a medical malpractice action is significantly
different than pursuing a general negligence claim, as the women originally
wanted to do, legal experts say.

Money is one difference. Because so many medical experts and studies are
necessary to handle a medical malpractice claim, trying such a case costs at
least $ 25,000, according to Tampa lawyer Fritz Gray, who handles medical
malpractice cases and is certified as an expert in civil trial law.

Negligence cases typically are less pricey. "They (the malpractice cases)  are
too expensive to take frivolous ones," Gray said.

Time is another problem. With few exceptions, the statute of limitations  runs
out two years after the alleged abuse occurred. And for the claims that  are
timely, a complicated legal process is required before plaintiffs can file
suit.

No such barriers exist in the negligence realm. The statute of limitations  is
four years and suits can be - and in this case were - filed without warning  or
waiting.

As for the legal issues at hand, a lot will be the same. The women still  say
Young raped them while they recovered from surgery, and they still say  Citrus
Memorial is liable for that and for its own negligence in hiring,  retaining and
supervising Young.

The legal challenges, and the hospital's defenses, will be similar to those  in
a negligence action.

And the issue that everyone is interested in - money judgments against the
hospital - has some twists as well.

If the cases proceed to trial and a jury finds the hospital liable in some
fashion, there would be no cap on damages for pain and suffering, Gray said.  If
the hospital admitted liability - something health care providers rarely do  in
such cases - damages for pain and suffering would be limited to $ 350,000 in  a
medical malpractice case, state law shows.

Police arrested Young, a 45-year-old Inverness man, Oct. 3 after a fellow  nurse
found him atop a 15-year-old girl who was recovering from surgery. The  nurse
told police that it appeared Young was forcing sexual intercourse on the  girl.

Since then, five lawsuits against the nurse and his former employer have  been
filed. A judge dismissed three of the suits earlier this month, saying  they
must be filed under the strict rules that govern medical malpractice  actions.

Many other women have accused Young of raping them, and more lawsuits are
expected.

To get the legal ball rolling, plaintiffs must find a medical expert to  report
that the woman was the victim of medical malpractice. After that, the
plaintiffs must notify the hospital that they are considering filing suit.

The hospital then has 90 days to investigate and make a settlement offer.  The
parties will engage in an informal "discovery" process.

"You have to put your cards on the table and show what you have," said  James T.
Ferrara, a Boca Raton lawyer.

If nothing is resolved, then the plaintiffs may file suit.

If the cases make it to trial, the plaintiffs must prove that Young raped  them.
That could be difficult, considering that all the patients were sedated  and
recovering from surgery at the time of alleged  molestation; however, it  will
be easier than it would be in the criminal arena, where the charge must  be
proved beyond a reasonable doubt.

As in the criminal cases, evidence of Young's behavior in other attacks  might
be allowed to help prove that he was guilty in the case at hand.

Next, the women will attack the hospital on four basic grounds: vicarious
liability, negligent hiring, negligent retention and negligent supervision.

"All they need is one," Gray said.

Under the first point, the plaintiffs will try to show that the hospital is
vicariously liable for its employee's alleged acts. The hospital doesn't have
to be actively negligent; it simply must suffer for deeds its agent carried  out
while in the scope of his duties.

The hospital's defense - and there's plenty of legal precedent to back it  up -
will be that Young stopped being a nurse and started acting on his own  when he
allegedly attacked his patients.

"They've got a real good argument on that. It's a tough one. I wouldn't  rule it
out," Gray said.

Helping the women will be the legal precedent set in 1988, when the 2nd
District Court of Appeal found that a jury should decide when a person's
official capacity ends and when the person starts acting on his own.

In that case, a boy who was sexually molested by a Boy Scout leader sued  the
organization.

If the vicarious-liability theory doesn't prevail, the women can argue that  the
hospital was negligent by improperly hiring Young, retaining him and not
adequately supervising him.

That's when the women can talk about Young's sexual affair with a high  school
student when he was a teacher; Citrus Memorial's failure to check  Young's
record with the Department of Education before hiring him; and sexual  abuse
allegations that surfaced against him and were dismissed by the hospital  in
August, allowing Young to allegedly continue to attack more patients.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITRUS TIMES

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO; Bruce Alan Young

                            Times Publishing Company


