                              391 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            December 28, 2014 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

HSE advised to stall in life support row;
Hospital wanted to turn off machine

BYLINE: Justine McCarthy

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 608 words


AN HSE-run hospital outside Dublin had been prepared to switch off life support
almost three weeks ago for a braindead pregnant woman. The plan was abandoned
after the HSE received legal advice that support should continue because of
constitutional obligations to the foetus.

Yesterday morning, 28 days after the mother-of-two suffered a catastrophic brain
trauma in her local hospital, her life support was finally withdrawn.

This followed a ruling by three judges of the High Court, who considered the
mother's deteriorating condition, the unlikely survival of the foetus and the
"unimaginable distress" caused to her family by "a futile exercise".

The woman was declared clinically dead at a voluntary hospital in Dublin, at
5.20pm on December 3. After her body was transferred back to her local hospital
by ambulance on December 8, authorities there wanted to terminate the somatic
support keeping her then 16-week-old foetus alive.

The woman's widowed father had asked that life support be withdrawn, but doctors
in her local hospital feared they would be at risk of prosecution for failing to
vindicate the unborn's constitutional right to life, as enshrined in article
40.3.3 of Bunreacht na hEireann.

Local hospital clinicians were alarmed because their colleagues at the Dublin
hospital had already received legal advice that the constitution required the
continuation of somatic measures. At that point, the HSE obtained a legal
opinion.

The consultant neurosurgeon who treated the woman in Dublin told the High Court
last Tuesday that he had requested advice from the hospital's legal-risk
department on the morning of December 1, but never received an opinion in
writing. He said he and two other clinicians had tried "to figure out the eighth
amendment" to the constitution. Under the Protection of Life During Pregnancy
Act, passed by the Oireachtas last year, women and their doctors are liable to
14 years' imprisonment on conviction of procuring an illegal abortion. Leo
Varadkar, the health minister, was informed that in a similar case in Waterford
in 2001, the then attorney general Michael McDowell advised that life support
could be switched off. In a Dail speech on December 17, after being told about
the case, Varadkar said: "Speaking today as minister for health, and also as a
medical doctor, and knowing all that I do now, it is my considered view that the
eighth amendment is too restrictive." The legal advice to the HSE did not
include reference to the 2001 case or the Heidelberg study, both of which were
raised in last week's three-day Continued on page 2

Life support case delayed

Continued from page 1 court hearing. The study, spanning 30 years, noted seven
international cases involving a foetus at gestation of 17 weeks or less. Of
those, two unborns survived but one of them died 30 days after delivery.

As doctors considered the implications of article 40.3.3, one proposal was that,
to allow the young mother to die naturally and with dignity, her body be
transferred to Northern Ireland, where the Irish constitution does not apply.
The suggestion was that her life support could be terminated in Northern Ireland
and she could be returned to the republic for burial. That proposal was not
pursued.

Yesterday, a Labour senator said the need to repeal article 40.3.3 is too urgent
to wait until after the next general election. "This case was not a scenario
anyone had anticipated," said Ivana Bacik. "This was a specific case involving a
15-week gestation and the judgment is specifically within that context. What
would happen if another case arose where gestation is more advanced?" Comment,
Justine McCarthy, page 12

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2014 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


