                              384 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                     News-Journal (Daytona Beach, Florida)

                            March 12, 2014 Wednesday

Whistleblower's attorneys seek $10M from Halifax Health

BYLINE: Skyler Swisher, Skyler Swisher skyler.swisher@news-jrnl.com

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 886  words


DAYTONA BEACH -- Halifax Health's bill to resolve a whistleblower lawsuit
accusing the hospital of Medicare fraud will swell even larger when attorney
fees are considered.

Facts

Largest hospital fraud cases

Halifax Health's $85 million settlement is the largest amount ever paid in a
Stark Law case, according to Taxpayers Against Fraud, a Washington, D.C.-based
organization supported by whistleblower attorneys.

Tuomey Healthcare System in Sumter, S.C., was recently ordered to pay $237.5
million in a Stark Law case, but the matter is still being litigated. Other
hospital fraud cases involving different violations have produced much larger
payouts than Halifax Health's suit but not all the claims in the Daytona Beach
hospital's case have been resolved. Other cases:

Tenet Healthcare Corp.: $900 million (2006)

Columbia HCA: $731.4 million (2000)

Columbia HCA: $631 million (2003)

HealthSouth: $325 million (2004)

St. Barnabas Hospitals: $265 million (2006)

SOURCE: Taxpayers Against Fraud

The 678-bed public system must pay $85 million to settle some of the claims
brought by whistleblower Elin Baklid-Kunz when she sued in 2009. The
whistleblower's attorneys are also seeking about $10 million in legal fees on
top of the settlement amount.

Add roughly $21 million that Halifax Health has spent on its own defense, and
the hospital system could be on the hook for as much as $116 million.

The $10 million in legal fees is reasonable considering what Halifax Health has
spent on its own legal defense so far, said Lin Wood, an attorney representing
Baklid-Kunz.

The U.S. Department of Justice intervened in 2011 and supported the case,
accusing the hospital of maintaining illegal contracts with doctors and
submitting false Medicare claims. Wood said the hospital took a "scorched-earth
approach" to defending the case.

"We have certainly extended the olive branch in our initial demands," Wood said.
"Halifax took what should have been a fairly straightforward case, and their
lawyers fought every issue. They fought every document request. They took
positions that were clearly unreasonable. We had to spend a lot of time and a
lot of money to fight them on what should have been a battle that never needed
to be fought."

John Guthrie, Halifax Health spokesman, said the hospital is reviewing the
whistleblower's initial request for legal fees. He declined to respond to Wood's
statements, citing pending litigation. The hospital could contest the legal
fees, and the court would decide the matter. Hospital officials deny the
whistleblower's allegations and say they never committed fraud.

The price tag doesn't include the next part of the case that is set for trial in
July. Baklid-Kunz is alleging Halifax Health admitted patients for unneeded
hospital stays of two days or less and is seeking more than $246.5 million on
those claims, which the Justice Department did not intervene on.

While those claims are still pending, Halifax Health agreed to settle the
portion of Baklid-Kunz's suit, which was supported by the Justice Department,
for $85 million, which it must pay within 10 days of the agreement being
finalized. The hospital agreed to abide by a five-year corporate integrity
agreement. As a result, the hospital will be required to hire a legal reviewer
and compliance officer. They will report regularly to the federal government.

As the whistleblower, Baklid-Kunz and her attorneys will get $20.8 million of
the settlement amount. The attorneys will receive a portion of that based on a
contingency fee, which they would not disclose. Baklid-Kunz still works at the
hospital as director of physician services, earning an annual salary of $92,081.

Halifax Health officials denied liability in the settlement, except that they
violated the Stark Law, which prohibits hospitals from paying doctors based on
referrals and volume. The Justice Department says such employment arrangements
can create financial conflicts of interest that lead to unnecessary medical
procedures and drive up health care costs.

On Tuesday, the hospital notified bondholders that it would violate some of the
promises it made on its debt. The hospital will tap into its funded depreciation
account -- money set aside to replace aging equipment and other assets -- to pay
the settlement. Hospital officials told bondholders they plan to be back in
compliance with the terms of their bonds by March 2015.

With a cash reserve of about $420 million, Halifax Health is in a position to
pay additional damages, said Marlan Wilbanks, another of Baklid-Kunz's
attorneys.

Hospital officials have declined to discuss their specific financial strategy
moving forward but say they will re-examine their strategic plan. In a memo sent
to employees before the settlement was finalized, Halifax Health CEO Jeff Feasel
wrote it would be paid for by belt-tightening and the potential delay of some
capital expenditures, instead of raising taxes. At that time, hospital officials
expected they would have several years to pay the settlement instead of 10 days.

The parties are not in settlement talks on the remaining claims, Wood said.

"I am always willing to listen," Wood said. "Right now, I don't anticipate a
settlement. I am preparing my own scorched-earth prosecution for trial. It will
be a no-holds-barred prosecution of Halifax hospital before a jury."

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

