                              389 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                            August 28, 1999 Saturday
                                  Late Edition

Union may sue over hospital raid

BYLINE: PAUL CONROY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 350 words


A health union is planning legal action over a mock raid at St George's Hospital
in which two undercover security guards from a private security company shocked
nursing staff.

The secretary of the Health Services Union No.1 branch, Ms Pauline Fegan, said
union representatives would meet with lawyers on Monday to discuss their legal
strategy.

Legal action is likely to be taken against the hospital and not the security
firm involved in the incident, City Watch Security.

Hospital staff have also sought a formal apology from management, and an
assurance that there would be no further security exercises.

Ms Fegan said employers had a legal responsibility to ensure a safe working
environment. "Having security guards coming in on a mock raid without their
knowledge is certainly not meeting those standards. They owe their employees a
duty of care," she said.

Staff at the hospital have been offered counselling after the guards entered the
building last Sunday morning and allegedly interrogated seven frightened nurses.
The guards, dressed in plain clothes and not wearing identification tags, ran
around the wards. Union organisers said the men initially refused to identify
themselves to the nurses.

Industrial organisers are also confused about claims by hospital management that
a memo was issued to senior staff notifying them of a general security review.

"We know nothing about any memo or anything like it," Ms Fegan said.

The hospital's chief executive officer, Ms Christine Edwards, said this week
that the mock raid was carried out without her knowledge or that of hospital
supervisors.

In a media release by the public relations firm IPR Shandwick, City Watch
Security said it was in a "strong position contractually" with St George's
Hospital over the incident.

It said the company would make a formal response as soon as the facts concerning
a security audit at the hospital had been clarified with hospital management.

A meeting has already taken place between hospital management and
representatives of City Watch Security. The firm has since declined to formally
comment about the incident.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 1999 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


