                              386 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             August 29, 2014 Friday
                                 Met 2 Edition

Improvements noted in St. Elizabeths patient care

BYLINE: Keith L. Alexander

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B03

LENGTH: 396 words


Justice Department asks to end its court-ordered monitoring of hospital

The Justice Department said Thursday that St. Elizabeths Hospital has made
"significant improvements" in the care of its patients and asked a federal judge
to discontinue the agency's monitoring of the facility.

Officials filed the request in U.S. District Court, saying court-mandated
oversight of the District-operated psychiatric hospital is no longer needed. The
monitoring was put in place after the Justice Department in 2006 found that
numerous civil rights violations were made by the hospital regarding patient
treatment.

In 2007, Justice Department officials and the District entered into a court
settlement agreeing to implement sweeping reforms to the hospital's operations
to address the violations. In 2011, agency  officials issued another series of
reports in which they found continued patient violence and shortcomings in
training in patient care.

But in their latest review, Justice Department  officials cited progress at the
facility, saying it had increased the levels of clinical staff, lowered its
patient population by nearly 50 percent and revised its discharge and community
placement orders for those patients released. The hospital was also praised for
a new, modern facility on its campus.

"We commend the District and the Department of Behavioral Health for their
commitment to reform the clinical practices" at the hospital, Molly Moran,
acting assistant attorney general for civil rights, said in a statement. Moran
said hospital officials and the Department of Behavioral Health "have made
significant and often difficult decisions to change the clinical culture at St.
Elizabeths Hospital and ensure that persons confined to the hospital were
appropriately discharged and integrated into the community with adequate
supports."

The latest developments came following criticism of the hospital after three
patients had walked off the grounds without permission since February.

Even under the request for relief, the hospital's managers would be required to
hold quarterly meetings with the deputy general counsel for the Department of
Behavioral Health and University Legal Services, the District's nonprofit
community legal group.

University Legal Services will continue to monitor and meet with hospital
officials as well as conduct unannounced visits.

keith.alexander@washpost.com

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: Every Zone

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


     Copyright 2014 Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive Company, LLC d/b/a
                            Washington Post Digital
                              All Rights Reserved


