                              385 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                     November 3, 1995, Friday, City Edition

Hospital tug of war getting pricey

BYLINE: DEANNA BELLANDI

SECTION: NORTH PINELLAS TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 437 words

DATELINE: TARPON SPRINGS



Convincing voters to sell their local hospital isn't cheap. Neither is  warding
off a corporate giant like Columbia/HCA Healthcare Corp.

So far the city has spent almost $ 142,000 to do just that, according to  city
finance reports that cover the period from March until now.

Much of that cost - $ 128,617 - has been in legal fees to attorney Barbara
Pankau and her Tampa law firm, Honigman, Miller, Schwartz and Cohn.

In July, City Manager Costa Vatikiotis had estimated that legal bills would
range between $ 50,000 and $ 100,000.

The City Commission hired Pankau in February to advise it on a partnership  deal
Helen Ellis Memorial Hospital officials wanted to strike with Columbia.  The
commission ultimately harpooned that deal but retained Pankau, who has
continued to advise it on its drive to sell the hospital.

Voters will decide in a Nov. 14 referendum whether the commission should be
able to sell the 150-bed hospital, which is owned by the city but run by a
private foundation. Hospital officials are opposed to selling the hospital.

Besides attorneys' fees, the city has spent $ 10,630 to advertise in local
newspapers, including the St. Petersburg Times, as well as $ 188 for fliers and

 $ 2,200 for direct mailings, according to a finance report.

"I will do whatever it takes to get the facts out to the citizens the best  way
that I can," said Mayor Anita Protos.

Vatikiotis said the money is coming from the city's general fund. No city
services have been compromised to pay those bills, he said.

"I'm a very good manager," he said.

Much of the money has come from savings in personnel costs the city has had
over the past year.

While the amount of money the city spends is a matter of public record,  that's
not the case with the hospital. Joe Kiefer, Helen Ellis' administrator,  said
the hospital's legal bills parallel those of the city, although the  hospital's
advertising costs are higher. That's because the hospital is  advertising on
radio and television, as well as in newspapers, to encourage  voters to defeat
the referendum.

Kiefer said he doesn't know what the final bill will be when it is all  over.

Last week Kiefer reported that the hospital had spent $ 12,678 so far on
advertising, mostly on fees to the hospital's public relations firm, Ketchum
Public Relations of Pittsburgh. The spending report covers the time between
Sept. 14 and Oct. 27.

Those expenses were detailed in a campaign treasurer's report filed by the
hospital Friday in the city clerk's office. Municipalities aren't required to
file such reports.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: NORTH PINELLAS TIMES

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO; City Manager Costa Vatikiotis

                    Copyright 1995 Times Publishing Company


