                              387 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                               The Indiana Lawyer

                                October 13, 2010

Handling health care;
Hospital general counsel enjoys diverse workload.

LENGTH: 1044 words


Handling health care Hospital general counsel enjoys diverse workload.

After spending 12 years in the health-care field as an X-ray technician, an
in-house counsel for a hospital network in Indianapolis seems to be in the right
place.

Shelley Fraser has been at Community Health Network for almost two years after
hearing about the job from a neighbor of someone who worked in Community's legal
department. At that time, she'd been working for the firm now known as Taft
Stettinius & Hollister for about five years, where she practiced health-care
law.

Her main interest in going to law school was to practice something in the field
of health care, so she enjoyed that job where she had experience with
transactional and regulatory work in the health-care field.

But she was also excited for a new opportunity and ready for a change where she
could focus on just one client. She also saw potential of being able to spend
more time with her family - she was pregnant at the time - and spend less time
worrying about billable hours and business development. She added this doesn't
mean she has any less work - if anything she might have more work - but it's
also faster paced and more focused because she only has the one client.

Today, as assistant general counsel to Community Health Network, she splits her
time between an office at Community Hospital East and another office at
Visionary Enterprises Inc.

"VEI is essentially the innovative development arm of the network - it owns and
manages numerous ambulatory surgery centers, manages physician practices, and
owns and manages real estate in addition to many other business ventures," she
said.

Each of those offices also has a member of the legal department who is there
full time - Karen Ann Lloyd is at Community Hospital East, and Karen Turner is
at VEI. The three of them oversee the legal issues of the network that includes
11,000 employees around central Indiana. She also said the three attorneys work
well together, and she never feels isolated.

"It's more of a team environment," she said. "We don't collaborate on
everything, but we always support each other."

There are five hospitals, plus more than 90 sites of care, which have a wide
range of legal issues, she said.

In her role, she continues to work on transactional and regulatory compliance,
but she and other general counsels also address tax, employment, mental health
issues, and even criminal questions. She said the work is diverse and no two
days are ever alike.

While she doesn't often use her clinical background in her day-to-day work, she
said it does help her understand how a hospital works, including the importance
of focusing on the needs of patients.

She also said as a member of the riskmanagement team for the hospital network,
even though things have changed since she was in the field, when she works with
nurses she at least has an understanding of what they do because of her
background.

While it doesn't happen every day, from time to time she is able to affect
patients' lives directly - something she misses from her time as an X-ray
technician. This usually only happens when she receives a call from the
intensive care unit regarding a patient who is incapacitated and a decision
needs to be made about the patient's treatment, even if there's no clearly
defined person who can speak on behalf of the patient.

They're never easy choices to make, she said. She can tell the physician the
ethical or legal ways to handle the situation, but there isn't always a clear
answer one way or the other.

She has also learned about mentalhealth legal issues as the network has a number
of patients with these concerns. For instance, the legal aspects of the
commitment process, such as when someone can be constrained; what happens if the
person needs medication but cannot give consent and who can give that consent;
guardianship and power of attorney issues; the network's role in cases involving
child protective services and adult protective services; when mental-health
records can be released; what records can be released when it comes to alcohol
and substance abuse; duty to warn issues when it comes to issues like HIV
reporting; and what can or can't be shared in therapy sessions involving support
groups.

While most of the physicians and others in the network have seen a lot of these
firsthand and know many of the answers themselves, she said, "They already know
the easy answers. By the time the question gets to me, there's some kind of
twist to it that's unusual from what they usually see."

She said among the issues she's seen, some of the harder ones to address involve
forced medication and consent issues, including controversial procedures or even
when the issue of patient sterilization arises.

The hospital network has also worked with court programs. While those programs
run on their own, she said the legal department has reviewed some of the forms
to make them in compliance with what can and can't be disclosed to the court
regarding mental-health issues.

She added a number of people who work for the hospital have been there 20 or 30
years, and can also provide institutional knowledge when needed. Or when changes
need to take place - as they have under health-care reform over the past couple
years since Fraser started - others in the hospital can serve as a good
reference when it comes to what has or hasn't worked in the past.

"As the health-care industry is being revamped and redesigned, it's a great
opportunity to improve processes," she said. "Our goal is to have better patient
care and better access, and we're analyzing how to make those changes over the
next couple years."

Among those changes are how to make records more high tech and in compliance
with the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, but because the
hospital network is already connected, one concern is if the requirements are
somehow different from what the network already does.

Fraser remains in touch with her mentor, Dave Bromund, a partner at Taft
Stettinius & Hollister.

"Shelley was an important member of our health and life sciences group," he said
via e-mail. "We were sorry to see her move on, but understood that she was
getting a great opportunity at Community. While she was here, she had
17IL/2010/10/13

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine


                         Copyright 2010 IBJ Corporation
                              All Rights Reserved


