                              42 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 13, 1999, Friday, Late Edition - Final

State Opposes Plan to House The Homeless in Hospitals

BYLINE: By AMY WALDMAN

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 810 words


The State Department of Health said yesterday that it would oppose New York
City's plan to temporarily house the homeless in two public hospitals, even as
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani defended the proposal.

A City Council ordinance now bans the city from letting families seeking shelter
sleep at the Emergency Assistance Unit in the Bronx, and the city is under court
order to comply. The city currently sends most families from the unit to a
shelter in the Bronx, but in August, when temperatures rise, children are still
out of school and cramped apartments become harder to bear, the number of
families needing shelter rises.

City officials had said on Wednesday that they could begin placing homeless
families overnight at North Central Bronx Hospital as early as Friday, and at
Harlem Hospital Center at a later date, to alleviate overflow from the unit.

But without approval from the state, which certifies municipal hospitals and
must approve any substantive change in their use, it is not clear that the city
can legally go ahead with the plan.

The Legal Aid Society, which monitors the city's handling of the homeless under
a long-running court case, said on Wednesday that it would sue the city if it
tried to place homeless families at the hospitals. Yesterday, the city agreed,
in a phone conference with a court-appointed special master and Legal Aid, that
it would first seek to place couples without children and single pregnant women
at the hospitals. Susan Wiviott, a spokeswoman for the Department of Homeless
Services, said the department would still place families at the hospitals if the
need arose.

Kristine Smith, a spokeswoman for the State Department of Health, said yesterday
that "from a public health standpoint the proposal is not something we can
support."

"We will not approve the proposal to house homeless individuals at North Central
Bronx and Harlem Hospitals," she said.

City officials said they had no comment on the state's position. But Mayor
Giuliani defended the plan yesterday, and suggested that "limousine liberalism"
was driving its opponents. "The fact is that the hospital is underutilized, and
the city has to find places for the people that are homeless, it's under court
order to do that," he said. "And that's as good a place as any if it's being
underutilized."

He continued, "It's decent, it's habitable, it's probably better than the space
that you have available in certain other shelters, even if they are privately
run."

There has been growing concern among community leaders about the city's plans
for both hospitals, and North Central Bronx in particular. The Health and
Hospitals Corporation has been gradually reducing services at the hospital and
diverting patients to Jacobi Medical Center. The homeless families were to be
housed in what used to be a 25-bed rehabilitation unit.

City officials have said the hospital's patient population is dwindling because
of managed care and other changes in health care. But community leaders and
elected officials say they believe the city is deliberately shrinking the
hospital's services so that it can be closed and sold to Montefiore Medical
Center, which is next door. At Harlem Hospital Center, the patient base has also
been dwindling, and the city has made simultaneous cutbacks.

"Folks in the Harlem community are going to be concerned that this is one more
step in closing down Harlem Hospital," said Lisa Daglian, a spokeswoman for the
Manhattan Borough President, C. Virginia Fields.

On Tuesday, the City Council's Health Committee held a hearing on the future of
North Central Bronx. Yesterday, the chairman of the committee, Victor Robles,
expressed outrage that no city official had mentioned the plan to house the
homeless at the hospital. He said he planned to summon Dr. Luis Marcos, the
president of the city's Health and Hospitals Corporation, back to the committee
in September.

"The man lied to me, the man lied to my committee," Mr. Robles said. "I won't
tolerate it."

Mr. Robles, Bronx Borough President Fernando Ferrer, and Councilwoman June
Eisland also released a copy of a letter, dated Aug. 6, from the North Bronx
Healthcare Network, the division of the corporation that administers North
Central Bronx, to the State Department of Health requesting approval for placing
homeless families there.

The letter says that the Department of Homeless Services intends to shelter
approximately 15 families -- a maximum of 45 people -- each night at the
hospital, that it will staff the unit with two "peace officers" and an
administrator, and that "families will not have access to any other areas within
the hospital."

The letter also urges the state to expedite its review of the plan. But hospital
employees said no work had been done to prepare the rehabilitation unit to house
families.



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


