                              395 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                               Swindon Advertiser

                            July 22, 2009 Wednesday

Legal fight for hospital ends in heartbreak

SECTION: SWINDON NEWS (SWINDON NEWS)

LENGTH: 812 words


AFTER an epic and costly legal battle, a top judge yesterday broke Wiltshire
residents' hearts when he refused to order the re-opening of a much-loved
community hospital.

Local people turned up in droves to support the campaign to save Savernake
Hospital, near Marlborough, spearheaded by retired physiotherapy assistant, Val
Compton.

In a case which will have cost the Wiltshire Primary Care Trust a six-figure sum
in legal costs, Mrs Compton mounted a wide-ranging attack on its decision to
shut the hospital's Minor Injuries Unit and, she claimed, to close its Day
Hospital by stealth.

Mr Justice Cranston accepted that the PCT was guilty of an error of judgement
when it appointed a company called Red Bridge Solutions Ltd to analyse responses
during a public consultation exercise prior to the closure decision.

That was because one of the company's directors, Stephen Tanner, was the partner
of Jane Britton, who was at the time associate director of patient and public
involvement at the Avon, Gloucestershire and Wiltshire Strategic Health
Authority.

But the judge rejected Mrs Compton's plea that the relationship between Mr
Tanner and Ms Britton gave rise to an appearance of bias.

He said Red Bridge was selected after a rigorous tendering process and the
company accurately recorded the views of those opposed to the hospital closure.
In any event, the judge added, the Strategic Health Authority's role was to
advise the PCT on procedural requirements, not on decision-making.

The PCT disputed claims it had closed the Day Hospital.

But Mrs Compton pointed out that refurbished consulting rooms were largely
empty.

On that issue, the judge said: "Mrs Compton's evidence persuaded me the Day
Hospital as a suite of rooms at the Savernake site has been, in substance,
closed."

But, observing that the PCT had put in place a network of "neighbourhood teams"
providing medical services in the community, the judge said: "If the Day
Hospital is regarded as a collection of health services, it is alive and well."

Mrs Compton argued the PCT's clinical grounds for closing the hospital do not
stand scrutiny and that the real reason behind the move was a financial one
which, she claimed, was based on flawed assumptions that running down Savernake
would save money.

Despite Mrs Compton's plea that reinstatement of the facilities at Savernake
would produce savings, the PCT insisted that its new arrangements, including
neighbourhood teams, were working well for patients.

Dismissing Mrs Compton's challenge, the judge ruled: "Given the financial
arguments the PCT now adduces, it is impossible for me to conclude that the
PCT's financial case was flawed on public law grounds."

Mr Justice Cranston said he was impressed by Mrs Compton's supporters who
attended court. He said: "It must have been especially galling when, shortly
after the facilities at Savernake Hospital had been refurbished, the decisions
regarding the Day Hospital and Minor Injuries Unit were taken.

"I have expressed my view that the decision to engage Red Bridge constituted an
error of judgment.

"But in legal terms, the challenge that the decisions were flawed for apparent
bias because of Red Bridge's involvement cannot succeed.

"I have concluded that the PCT's decisions in respect of both the Day Hospital
and the Minor Injuries Unit at Savernake Hospital were properly made."

After the ruling, PCT barrister Fenella Morris said the litigation was quite
phenomenally costly and asked for Mrs Compton, whose case was backed by the
pressure group Community Action for Savernake Hospital, to pay a £20,000 legal
costs bill.

Mr Justice Cranston said it was right that she and her supporters should make a
contribution and fixed her bill at £10,000.

Jeff James, the chief executive of NHS Wiltshire, said he was pleased with the
outcome of the judicial review.

He said: "We took care to ensure that our decisions were reasonable and that the
decision-making process was fair.

"It is very good to see that the judgement clearly confirms that our approach
was fair.

"We were concerned to create a pattern of services that brought more care to
patients at home and gave people in Wiltshire a sustainable range of services to
respond to their needs for urgent care.

"We knew that this would involve change and some existing services would cease
and others would be modified.

"We appreciated that in some communities there would be concern because services
that people were familiar with would be replaced with new services.

"The evidence shows that our community services are working well.

"Our Neighbourhood Teams, providing care at home, have received overwhelming
support from patients and carers.

"Similarly, the re-organisation of minor injury services has been achieved with
no adverse impact on patients, GPs or local A&E services."

Mr James said the decision ended a period of uncertainty for staff and the
community.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2009 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


