                              399 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                    The Hamilton Spectator (Ontario, Canada)

                              May 29, 2015 Friday
                                 First Edition

Legal charity reaches out to families with ailing children;
Pro Bono Law Ontario expands its front-line assistance program to include
McMaster Children's Hospital

BYLINE: Joanna Frketich The Hamilton Spectator

SECTION: LOCAL / NEWS; Pg. A10

LENGTH: 500 words


Your child is sick at McMaster Children's Hospital, your landlord is threatening
eviction and your boss warns you'll be fired if you take any more time off work.

Families can now get free legal help for the stressors that go hand- in-hand
with having an ill or disabled child from access-to-justice charity Pro Bono Law
Ontario, which already runs similar programs in Ontario's other children's
hospitals.

"Families who have kids who are sick in hospital tend to be really - and rightly
so - focused on their child and a lot of times other parts of their lives tend
to go sideways a bit," said Hamilton Health Sciences CEO Rob MacIsaac. "Having a
lawyer here offering free legal advice is a really helpful supplement to help
families get through these really difficult times."

More than 30 families have already used the service, announced Thursday at the
hospital on Main Street West.

"I'm seeing a lot of housing issues, whether landlords evicting or
discrimination or just apartments that aren't up to par," said Hilary Mack, the
PBLO lawyer who works with patient families.

"I'm seeing employers not being supportive of time off required by parents when
(they are) having to be at the hospital so much. Immigration issues are starting
to come up a lot ... and education with kids needing to be supported properly
when they're at school."

Mack has been at Chedoke or McMaster twice a week since November to assess the
severity of a family's issue, provide advice and train clinicians on how to spot
families with legal issues.

"There's a huge need," she said. "When you think about the families that are
here, they are already dealing with a huge stressor ... When you add they are a
low- to middle-income family ... they've got financial stressors built in. If
you add legal stressors to that, it becomes almost intolerable."

Families who need help are referred to the Hamilton Legal Clinic and local firms
Gowling Lafleur Henderson and Ross and McBride.

"Rarely do we get a chance to reach out into the broader community and help in
situations where people have trouble with accessing lawyers," said Mark
Abradjian, chair of Ross and McBride. "This was a situation ... where we thought
we could do some of the things in the community that a lot of our lawyers went
into law to do."

The program is designed to aid patients and their families deal with everything
from denial of disability benefits to marriage breakdown to immigration hurdles.

"We try to take our services to where people are in need," said Lynn Burns,
executive director of Pro Bono Law Ontario. "What we've been doing is embedding
ourselves in front-line service environments like courthouses, hospitals and
schools."

PBLO has long wanted to add McMaster, but did not have the funding until it got
a $50,000 grant from the Atkinson Foundation.

It hopes to keep the program running with donations after the funding runs out.

jfrketich@thespec.com

905-526-3349 | @Jfrketich

How you

can help

Help keep the program running

by donating to www.pblo.org

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


