                              402 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                         Daily Dispatch (South Africa)

                              June 22, 2015 Monday

Claims for negligence up to R3bn

BYLINE: Zwanga Mukhuthu

SECTION: CRIME, LAW & JUSTICE

LENGTH: 644 words


EC health department faces rocketing litigation
 By
  Crime Reporter
 MEDICAL negligence claims lodged by patients against the Eastern Cape
department of health rocketed from R166-million in 2009 to R3.8-billion last
year.
 And the R173-million in claims for the first three months of the current
financial year following procedures at just one hospital, Dora Nginza Hospital
in Kwazakele, Port Elizabeth, already outstrips the full year's claims in 2009.


 The total claims bill for first quarter of 2015-16 totals R700-million.
 The province's struggle to address spiraling legal claims was highlighted by
the health department's senior legal services adviser, Mlungisi Mlambo, during a
presentation to medical and legal professionals in East London at the weekend.
 Health superintendent-general Dr Thobile Mbengashe said the rise in litigation
against the department could be attributed to the Road Accident Fund tightening
the screws on runaway litigation.
  "The (claims) trend is moving towards our department because lawyers can no
longer easily sue the RAF," Mbengashe said.
 The department is in the final stage of appointing a provincial health
ombudsman, who it hopes will help to mitigate and address complaints.
 The medico-legal dialogue at the International Convention Centre on Saturday
was attended by 120 people including hospital chief executives, district health
managers, legal representatives of the department, and state attorneys.
 It was aimed at finding ways of addressing and preventing massive litigation
against the department.
 In the first quarter of the 2015-16 financial year, the department received
claims in nine of its provincial hospitals including:
 lDora Nginza Hospital, which is being sued for R173062500;
 lMthatha General Hospital - R117800000;
 lNelson Mandela Academic Hospital - R59896250;
  lCecilia Makiwane Hospital - R30389001;
 lFrere - R9210000;
 lAll Saints - R12803200;
 lLivingstone - R2701000;
  lButterworth - R1262500; and
 lHoly Cross Hospital - R450000.

 Mlambo said Dora Nginza was a tertiary institution that dealt with referral
cases from surrounding regional hospitals and clinics.
  "When patients suffer complications in a clinic or regional hospital they are
transferred to a tertiary hospital which has much more advanced care," said
Mlambo.
 "The claims have not yet been proven. You cannot control what people want to
sue you for," he said.
 Mbengashe told the Daily Dispatch 98% of litigation related to "birth and birth
trauma".
  "We believe if we provide the best quality care, we can avoid creating harm to
our patients and to unborn or newly born children."
  He said the increase in patients suing government was of great concern.
Officials in the department were colluding with outside parties by stealing and
destroying medical records.
 This needed to be stopped. Negligent health practitioners were being suspended
and subjected to disciplinary processes.
 Key areas of intervention included tightening up on the signing of a consent
form before surgery, and ensuring patients were properly informed about the
risks before agreeing to procedures. Doctors were obliged to communicate with
the patient on what could happen.
 It was also agreed the protocols and guidelines already in place should be
followed to prevent harm and further injury to patients.
 "In order for our professionals to practise their profession they need the
tools of the trade, the essential equipment to do the work," said Mbengashe.
 Health expert Dr Helmut Fritsche said health practitioners were being sued all
over the world.
  "But there are those unexplainable problems that arise in this difficult
profession where there is no one to blame. I am not defending cruel, negligent
and incompetent people," Fritsche said.
 Mthatha state attorney Sithembele Tshitshi said his job was to curb legal
costs. - zwangam@dispatch.co.za

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Daily Dispatch


                    Copyright 2015 BDFM Publishers PTY Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


