                              396 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                March 13, 1996, Wednesday, 2 Late Tampa Edition

TGH search doomed by bad advice

BYLINE: MARTY ROSEN

SECTION: TAMPA & STATE; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 612 words

DATELINE: TAMPA



The aborted search for a new Tampa General Hospital president was doomed by  bad
legal advice and an out-of-state consultant who compounded problems by  taking
drastic steps to keep secret the identities of candidates.

Dallas-based consultant Ed French returned resumes and form letters to  rejected
candidates to avoid compliance with a state law the hospital's  attorney could
not clearly explain to him, according to a memo obtained  Tuesday.

French said Monday in a deposition that he was unfamiliar with Florida's  public
records laws and relied on legal advice from hospital attorney Mike  Brown, of
the Tampa law firm of Allen, Dell, Frank & Trinkle.

"Brown said it was fine, then Brown said it's not fine," said board  chairwoman
Phyllis Busansky, who tried unsuccessfully to fire Brown and his  firm Monday.
"I think there are major problems with our attorneys, and he  just didn't
realize it."

Brown did not return calls Tuesday.

French wrote to rejected candidates: "We have been advised that a local,
Tampa-area newspaper, is contemplating a request for disclosure of all
candidates for the Tampa job. The TGH general counsel has previously advised
that he believes our process is exempt from disclosure but cannot be certain
because of the public records laws in Florida, so I want to be sure that your
candidacy is NOT disclosed without your specific approval. For that reason I  am
returning your resume at this time."

He added a postscript.

"P.S. My apologies for not sending a personalized response, but I'm most
concerned at this time with not having resumes in my office that may be  subject
to disclosure to anyone's disadvantage and time is of the essence in  that
regard."

French said he promised confidentiality to applicants. However, the Jan. 8
recruitment advertisement in Modern Healthcare magazine does not say the names
will be kept secret.

Hospital President Fred Karl said Tuesday he was aware the letter was being
sent, and stopped short of giving legal advice to French, but did tender a
warning: "I said, "You had better be damn sure you're right.' "

Karl, a lawyer, said the responsibility for legal guidance was with Brown,  yet
he made other attempts to keep the search legal. He warned board members  in a
Jan. 29 meeting to beware of crossing a fine legal line.

"You should not delegate to anybody the authority to actually check off or  to
negate any candidate that comes in. . . . If you do that you open  yourselves to
the Sunshine Law," Karl said.

But the board failed to adopt his suggestion, and Brown failed to pass the
information to French.

The first search was stopped Monday after Brown told the board in a  closed-door
session that his faulty legal advice violated the state's  Government in the
Sunshine laws. The Times sued the hospital and French's  company to make the
records public.

In fact, there were three violations:

French violated the open meetings law when he rejected candidates for the  top
job. He merely had the authority under the law to rank candidates.

The screening committee also violated the state open-meeting law when it
reviewed 16 applications and rejected 11. The screening committee, which
included French, Dr. Fred Reddy and Dr. Charles Mahan, dean of the University
of South Florida College of Public Health, also was limited in its authority  to
merely rank candidates.

French violated the state's public records law by failing to maintain  copies of
job applications. Under the law, he was the hospital board's  delegated
custodian of records and was required to keep accurate files for  public review.

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: TAMPA & STATE

                    Copyright 1996 Times Publishing Company


