                              394 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                     The Press Democrat, Santa Rosa, Calif.

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             June 14, 2011 Tuesday

Judge dismisses legal challenges to new Sutter hospital

BYLINE: Guy Kovner, The Press Democrat, Santa Rosa, Calif.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 529 words


June 14--A Sonoma County judge has rejected many of the legal objections to the
Board of Supervisors' approval last year of a new Sutter Medical Center north of
Santa Rosa.

Judge Rene Chouteau faulted the county's approval of the $284 million hospital
complex on two limited issues, but rejected other complaints raised in the
lawsuit filed in September by hospitals in Healdsburg and Sebastopol and an
environmental group.

He ruled the Healdsburg District and Palm Drive hospital boards had no standing
to challenge the Sutter project.

"They are competitors of Sutter hospital acting for economic and competitive
purposes," Chouteau said in a 12-page decision.

In their lawsuit, the Healdsburg and Sebastopol hospitals -- joined by a nurses
union and Transportation Solutions Defense and Education Fund, a Bay Area
nonprofit -- alleged that an environmental analysis of the Sutter project was
"flawed and fragmented" and should be set aside.

Mike Purvis, chief administrative officer of Sutter Medical Center, said the
judge's decision primarily held that the environmental analysis was "on target."

The decision allowed construction of the 82-bed hospital to continue on a
25-acre site next to the Wells Fargo Center, off Highway 101 at Mark West
Springs Road.

"What we're excited about is moving forward with construction," Purvis said,
noting that site work is three weeks ahead of schedule.

The new hospital, scheduled to open in October 2014, will replace the Sutter
Medical Center on Chanate Road.

David Schonbrunn, president of the Transportation Solutions group, said he was
disappointed by the judge's decision that objections to the new hospital's
location were not raised in a timely manner.

"That was our whole interest," Schonbrunn said. "They are planting this hospital
in the middle of nowhere."

Evan Rayner, chief executive of the North Sonoma County Health Care District,
which oversees Healdsburg District Hospital, could not be reached for comment
Monday.

Chouteau's decision was filed Thursday and received by Sutter attorneys on
Monday.

The judge required the Board of Supervisors to take two steps:

-- Reconsider the "mitigation measures" for greenhouse gas emissions related to
the new hospital, and;

-- Clarify ownership of an 80,000-square-foot medical office building next to
the hospital. The county General Plan designation for the hospital site requires
that the building is owned by a government or nonprofit agency or public
utility, the judge said.

Purvis described these issues as "technical areas" that the county must address,
with assistance from Sutter.

Chouteau rejected four claims made by the plaintiffs, including assertions that
the environmental analysis failed to consider "an adequate range of
alteratives," including a "no-project alternative" and a "city centered transit
oriented alternative."

To see more of The Press Democrat, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.pressdemocrat.com. Copyright (c) 2011, The Press Democrat, Santa
Rosa, Calif. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For more
information about the content services offered by McClatchy-Tribune Information
Services (MCT), visit www.mctinfoservices.com.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20110614-UR-Judge-dismisses-legal-challenges-to-new-Sutter-hospital
-0614-20110614

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: UR


                                 Copyright 2011


