                              397 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                          December 4, 1991, Wednesday

Suit: Children illegally held in institutions; Action seeks alternatives to
state mental hospitals

BYLINE: By Rebecca Perl STAFF WRITERhospitals; children; mental; care;
facilities

SECTION: STATE NEWS; SECTION B; PAGE 01

LENGTH: 941 words


Hundreds of children - some as young as 5 - who are not mentally ill are being
held illegally in state mental institutions for months, and in some cases even a
year, contends a class-action suit filed Tuesday in U.S. District Court in
Macon.

Children with emotional problems are languishing in locked wards in psychiatric
hospitals on the improper grounds that there is nowhere else to put them,
alleges the suit, filed by attorneys at Georgia Legal Services Program, a
federally funded group that represents people who can't afford a lawyer.

The suit charges that state officials at the Department of Human Resources (DHR)
are violating court agreements they made in 1984 and 1985 to discharge children
who are not mentally ill to community care. They want to change parts of the
agreement because its intent - to get children out of the hospital - has been
thwarted by holding children until scarce community placement can be secured.

"It has been over seven years since the court entered its first judgment and
still many children are being improperly and inappropriately hospitalized and
confined," the suit states.

While the suit takes the DHR to task for warehousing children who are mentally
ill but could be cared for in a less restrictive environment or won't benefit
from further treatment, it focuses primarily on holding those who are not
mentally ill.

These are children who have behavioral or emotional problems. Most have been
abused. Many are difficult. They may set fires, act violently, be hyperactive,
have trouble learning or be defiant.

Xenia Wiggins, a spokeswoman for the state Division of Mental Health, said DHR
officials could not comment on pending litigation but that officials recognize
the need for community treatment.

The suit calls for alternatives to hospitalization for children with severe
behavioral and emotional problems - therapeutic foster care, after- school
treatment centers and in-home crisis services - all virtually non- existent in
Georgia.

Legal services lawyers are asking the court to appoint a special master - in
this case a mental health expert - to try to solve the problem, handle
bureaucratic tangles, and implement what the court decides. Most of the children
are wards of the state who wind up in mental institutions as a result of
physical and sexual abuse, abandonment, truancy, fighting, stealing and running
away from home.

The suit cites five unnamed juveniles being confined in state mental
institutions, including:

An 8-year-old girl from Douglas County with an attention deficit who was
hyperactive and abused by her mother and who has been kept at Atlanta's Georgia
Mental Health Institute (GMHI) since April. Though the child's psychiatrist at
the hospital said she is not mentally ill, she remains hospitalized because of
the difficulty of finding both funding and proper community placement.

A 9-year-old Fulton County boy who was abandoned by his parents and has a
history of physical and sexual abuse was diagnosed with adjustment, conduct and
emotional disorders. Though he was described by the doctor that treated him at
GMHI as a "model patient" and not mentally ill, he was recommended for further
hospitalization and kept for three months - until placement became available.

A 16-year-old East Point girl with mild mental retardation who was kept in
Georgia Regional Hospital in Atlanta for a year and three months though her
doctor at the hospital said she is not mentally ill. During her stay, hospital
staff members said they worried about the teenager, who had been sexually abused
at home, because she lived among sexual offenders at the hospital.; Kids are not
mentally ill'

"Generally these kids are not mentally ill," said Torin Togut, the lawyer for
the lawsuit. "It's like bringing a kid with a cold to a hospital ward for the
dying and leaving him there way after he's recovered from the cold.

"The spirit of the agreement was not to dump kids in hospitals and treat them
there for long periods of time."

Not only are Georgia's mental hospitals not equipped to handle the special needs
of children with emotional problems, none provides long- term residential
treatment for children. Hospitals are meant to provide acute treatment -
typically a month or less of intensive treatment - for children under 13.

Nearly 2,000 children were treated last year in state mental hospitals, and
legal services lawyers contend that hundreds of those would be better-served in
scarce community programs. An estimated 18,000 children statewide need state
mental health services of some kind.; Hospital stays costly

The state has a program in Augusta that legal services lawyers say fits the
needs of children. It includes respite care, which gives parents a break;
in-home crisis care; and day treatment. A similar program that was started in
DeKalb County was never finished due to budget cuts.

There are also state foster homes in Clayton County and Valdosta and some
outpatient counseling at community mental health centers. Other than that, most
communities in Georgia have no publicly financed alternatives to
institutionalization. This despite the fact that advocates say treating a child
with in-home crisis services costs about $ 2,000, compared with $ 39,000 to
treat a child in a mental hospital.

And though DHR officials have asked for funding for more community services in
recent years, neither the governor nor the Legislature has been willing to
comply in these lean times.

As a result, in 1989 only Wyoming and Tennessee hospitalized more children than
Georgia.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1991 The Atlanta Constitution


