                              43 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                      The Tribune (Elkin, North Carolina)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                              May 29, 2015 Friday

Legal drama escalates over hospital

BYLINE: Karen Holbrook, The Tribune, Elkin, N.C.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 795 words


May 29--More legal drama is taking place over the Yadkin County hospitals as the
Yadkin County government announced that the HMC/CAH Acquisition Company filed a
motion that will prolong the resolution in the wrongful closure case against
Yadkin Valley Community Hospital.

In a press release Friday, Yadkin County announced that it had just learned that
the operator of the Yadkin Valley Community Hospital filed a motion and
transferred the lawsuit the County filed against HMC/CAH Acquisition Company 10,
LLC d/b/a Yadkin Valley Community Hospital (CAH) to federal court, which will
mean there will be no opportunity for a quick resolution by the Court to the
wrongful closure of the hospital.

County Attorney Edward L. Powell said, "This is nothing but a stalling and delay
tactic by CAH meant to harm the citizens of Yadkin County. These people have
stooped to a new low. Yadkin County is now going to take all measures necessary
to get CAH physically and legally out of our hospital at the earliest possible
moment and to work diligently to get a much better health care alternative
established for our citizens. If there were ever any doubt about the motives of
the hospital operator, this action clearly identifies the kind of folks we are
dealing with."

Earlier this week, Yadkin County and HCMH representatives met with the
leadership of the North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services in
Raleigh to discuss the unauthorized closure of Yadkin Valley Community Hospital,
by former operators HMC/CAH on May 22.

NCDHHS Director Drexdal Pratt and his staff informed the group that they
understood all the facts surrounding the sudden unauthorized closure of the
hospital, and he informed Yadkin County that the Department of Health and Human
Services would do everything legally possible to facilitate health care delivery
in Yadkin County, according to a statement from Yadkin County officials Thursday
afternoon.

In the press release, the county officials asked for patience as the county and
state governments work together to find a resolution. "This transition will take
some time, and Yadkin County asks that its citizens be understanding of this,"
read the release.

A hearing in Wake County on Monday is the next step in the process. The county,
with the help of healthcare attorney Allyson Labban of Smith Moore Leatherwood,
will be pursuing continuing legal action against HMC at the hearing in Raleigh.
The county plans to pursue legal action and request that the temporary
restraining order obtained on May 22 be a permanent restraining order to hold
HMC accountable for its early closure of the hospital.

The hospital has been the topic of hot debate in recent months. Despite legal
action on behalf of the county, the hospital shut down May 22. Since February,
the county has been in negotiations to find a new company to operate the
county-owned hospital building. When that failed, the county reentered
negotiations with the operator, HMC/CAH, but those negotiations also fell
through. After learning that HMC planned to shut down the hospital over the
weekend rather than fulfill its duty to remain open through its lease term which
ends July 31, the county took legal action to prevent the shutdown, but to no
avail.

During the opening session at an emergency meeting held by Yadkin County
commissioners Tuesday, County Manager Lisa Hughes read aloud from documentation
describing the county's ongoing financial difficulties with HMC. As part of the
original lease agreement with HMC, the group was to purchase land within two
years and build a new facility within four years, but in October of 2011, the
group filed for bankruptcy. Though the hospital remained open throughout the
bankruptcy proceedings, they were no longer able to pay rent to the county for
use of the hospital building. The county amended the lease with HMC several
times, no longer charging the group rent in exchange for using parts of the
facility for a county EMS center and health department clinic.

According to information presented to community members who serve on the
hospital's board, HMC has been able to turn around its financial losses and the
company has been making a profit, though they continued to use the county-owned
building rent-free. As the lease term was set to expire in April, the county
began discussing alternative options and began a Request for Proposal (RFP)
process in order to find another hospital organization to operate the facility.
During the RFP process, the county did enter a new lease agreement with HMC
allowing it to operate the hospital until July 31 while attempting to find a new
hospital operator.

___ (c)2015 The Tribune (Elkin, N.C.) Visit The Tribune (Elkin, N.C.) at
elkintribune.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20150529-VN-Legal-drama-escalates-over-hospital-0529-20150529

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: VN


                           Copyright 2015 The Tribune


