                              410 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                        The Atlanta Journal-Constitution

                     January 27, 2005 Thursday Home Edition

City Life Business: PEOPLE IN THE NEWS

SOURCE: AJC

SECTION: City Life Midtown; Pg. 3JN

LENGTH: 425 words


Legal Aid Society chooses another member of board

The Atlanta Legal Aid Society announces the addition of Robin M. Hensley to its
advisory board. Hensley is president of Raising the Bar, an Atlanta-based
consulting firm.

A recipient of the Georgia State University School of Accounting's Distinguished
Alumnus award, Hensley has served on the board of Northside Hospital for a
decade and also has served as president of the Northside Hospital Foundation.
Hensley is an alumna of Leadership Atlanta and an honorary lifetime board of
directors member of the American Cancer Society.

Managing broker

Todd Tucker has been promoted to managing broker of Prudential Georgia Realty's
new Douglasville office. Tucker previously served as assistant managing broker
of Prudential's Northwest office in Cobb County. He holds a Graduate, Realtor
Institute designation from the Georgia Association of Realtors and the national
designation of Accredited Buyer's Representative from the Real Estate Buyers
Agent Council. He holds his associate broker's license and Prudential's Fine
Homes Specialist designation and is a graduate of the University of Georgia.

Commissioners

District 5 Commissioner Emma I. Darnell was named vice chairwoman of the Fulton
County Board of Commissioners. Elected to the board in May 1992 to fill an
unexpired term, Darnell was re-elected to full terms as commissioner in 1994,
1998 and 2002. Her district consists of portions of central and northwest
Atlanta and southwest Fulton County. Darnell is president of Darnell &
Associates, which provides management consultants on equal employment
opportunity and equal business opportunity programs. She earned her bachelor's
degree from Fisk University, a master's degree from Teacher's College at
Columbia University and a law degree from the Howard University School of Law.

Partners selected

Morris, Manning & Martin, LLP have elected Jessica F. Pardi, Seslee S. Smith,
Jack D. Todd, Sidney Summers Welch and John H. Williamson partners at the firm.
Pardi practices in the areas of insurance litigation, reinsurance dispute
resolution, complex coverage disputes and insurer insolvency. Smith, who is with
the commercial litigation group, specializes in the defense of product liability
lawsuits. Todd focuses on intellectual property, technology law and licensing,
and related enforcement and protection. Welch, who is with the health care
group, specializes in representing physicians and physician groups. Williamson
is in the commercial litigation group.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Briefs

                Copyright 2005 The Atlanta Journal-Constitution


