                              406 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                             American Medical News

                                August 16, 2010

Medical-legal partnerships receive boost in new bills

BYLINE: By Chris Silva, amednews staff. Posted Aug. 16, 2010.

SECTION: GOVERNMENT; Pg. 10 Vol. 53 No. 33

LENGTH: 954 words

DATELINE: Washington



HIGHLIGHT: The AMA, other medical organizations and the ABA support MLPs, which
pair legal aid organizations with physician groups and hospitals.


 A bipartisan group of lawmakers has introduced bills that would allocate $10
million to test the value of medical-legal partnerships.

MLPs integrate legal assistance into the medical setting in an effort to improve
the well-being of patients. They seek to eliminate barriers to a healthy
lifestyle that often prevent vulnerable populations from getting the care they
need.

"Assistance in navigating our legal system is sometimes all it takes to prevent
individuals and their families from making repeated trips to the doctor or
hospital for a reoccurring condition," said Sen. Tom Harkin (D, Iowa), chair of
the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee.

On July 29, Harkin, along with Sens. Evan Bayh (D, Ind.) and Kit Bond (R, Mo.),
introduced the bill -- the Medical-Legal Partnerships for Health Act. Reps.
Daniel Maffei (D, N.Y.) and Christopher Murphy (D, Conn.) introduced companion
legislation in the House.

"MLPs help people obtain legal aid necessary to ensure that they receive the
care and benefits they deserve to lead healthier lives and to avoid future
injuries and illnesses," Harkin said. "Through making investments in MLPs, we
also save money by addressing preventable health conditions. It is my hope that
we can get the support needed in Congress for this important service."

The lawmakers said the legislation would:

     ·     Provide federal support to hospitals and attorneys to establish MLPs
          and encourage local buy-in by requiring each MLP to match at least 10%
          of federal grant funding.
     ·     Help cut health care costs by reducing emergency department visits.
     ·     Support a healthier work force by reducing the rate at which
          employees are absent from work or show up despite being ill.



A growing concept

Attorneys and paralegals are partnered with physicians and nurses at more than
200 hospitals, health centers and group practices nationwide, according to the
National Center for Medical-Legal Partnership, founded at Boston Medical
Center's Dept. of Pediatrics in 1993.

According to BMC, nearly 70% of its patients are poor, making them particularly
vulnerable to environmental and social stressors that impact health.

Barry Zuckerman, MD, said he founded the center after becoming frustrated with
continuously having to send sick children home to apartments that were in
substandard condition, often unheated and with unhealthy levels of mold.

He said he recognized that an attorney could help patients navigate complex
legal problems so patients could avoid situations that lead to medical problems,
such as a lack of food or heat.

"We can treat the health problem with medication, but the point is the cause of
it frequently is a legal one, and we're going right to the root cause," said Dr.
Zuckerman, who is also professor and chair of pediatrics at the Boston
University School of Medicine. "It's amazing how many people get their utilities
shut off in the winter when it need not happen. These are things that our
lawyers can help us prevent."

Initially, the center helped provide legal services exclusively on behalf of
children, but it expanded the effort in January 2009 to assist all individuals.

For the past year, the center has been monitoring the progress of a pilot study
examining the impact of MLPs. Preliminary data have shown a 50% decrease in ED
visits after medical-legal interventions.

Dr. Zuckerman hopes that the new bills in Congress will help launch a more
cohesive national program that would build on the resources started by his
center and others.

In New York, for instance, the Syracuse Medical Legal Partnership links training
programs in a pediatrics department with a clinical program at the Syracuse
University College of Law. At the University of Kansas, law students work at the
Family Health Care Legal Services Clinic to assist poor clients who have been
referred to them through Southwest Boulevard Family Health Care in Kansas City,
Kan.

Physician support

The concept of MLPs has received the backing of several physician organizations,
including the American Medical Association.

At the AMA Annual Meeting in Chicago in June, the Board of Trustees recommended
that the Association "should encourage physicians to develop MLPs to help
identify and resolve diverse legal issues that affect patients' health and
well-being."

"Through this partnership, the unmet legal or environmental needs of patients
can be addressed before they reach crisis proportions," said AMA board member
David O. Barbe, MD. "The AMA encourages physicians to develop medical-legal
partnerships, and we will help them do this by creating a model agreement and
working with key stakeholders on education."

MLPs also have received support or endorsement from other groups, including the
American Academy of Pediatrics, the American Hospital Assn. and the American Bar
Assn.

Working collaborations

Besides helping patients, medical-legal partnerships can increase revenue for
physicians and hospitals. If an uninsured patient's Medicaid application has
been denied, a legal service organization can help the person appeal the denial,
and Medicaid can be rebilled. Here are some existing programs:

The Law and Health Project: Land of Lincoln Legal Assistance Foundation,
Southern Illinois University School of Law and Southern Illinois Healthcare.

The Medicaid Appeals Project: Legal Aid of Missouri and Truman Medical Center in
Kansas City.

The San Diego Benefits Advocacy Project: Scripps Mercy Hospital and the Legal
Aid Society of San Diego.

LegalHealth: New York Legal Assistance Group and 14 New York City hospitals and
community-based health organizations.

Source: "Health Care Recovery Dollars: A Sustainable Strategy for Medical-Legal
Partnerships?" The Medical Legal Partnership for Children, April 2008

Back to top

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

