                              407 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                          Irish Independent (Ireland)

                            November 10, 2006 Friday

Hospital drops legal bid against patient's book

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 259 words


THE Mater Hospital has dropped its legal action against former patient Janette
Byrne who wrote a book about inadequacies she found in the hospital when she
attended for treatment.

Junior Minister Tim O'Malley told the Dail yesterday that the Department of
Health was advised by the HSE that the hospital was not pursuing a legal action
against the patient.

Corrected

However, the hospital wants what it considers inaccuracies and exaggerations to
be corrected by the publishers for any future editions of the book.

Labour TD Joe Costello said Ms Byrne had taken up the cudgel on behalf of
vulnerable sick patients who were left lying on trolleys and sitting on chairs
for days and he wanted to know if any taxpayers' money was being spent on the
threatened legal action.

He said it would be a scandal if any state money was used in that fashion.

Ms Byrne had done fantastic service for the country in highlighting the issues
and somebody like that should not be silenced, he said.

The State could not in any way collude in such silencing, Mr Costello said.

Mr O'Malley said the department had been advised that any costs arising from the
course of action being taken by the hospital would be paid out of its own
resources and not out of any money provided by the Exchequer.

He said the hospital "accepts the right of a patient to highlight what they
perceive to be inadequacies in the service and acknowledges the entitlement of
the patient to express opinions in relation to the treatment received as a
patient in the Hospital".

Geraldine Collins

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2006 Independent News and Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


