                              411 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                      The Tribune (Elkin, North Carolina)

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                             May 28, 2015 Thursday

Questions remain on hospital's future

BYLINE: Karen Holbrook, The Tribune, Elkin, N.C.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 806 words


May 28--The fate of the hospital located in Yadkin County is still in question
after a meeting that occurred between Yadkin County and Hugh Chatham Memorial
Hospital representatives Thursday.

The Yadkin County and HCMH representatives met with the leadership of the North
Carolina Department of Health and Human Services in Raleigh to discuss the
unauthorized closure of Yadkin Valley Community Hospital, by former operators
HMC/CAH May 22.

NCDHHS Director Drexdal Pratt and his staff informed the group that they
understood all the facts surrounding the sudden unauthorized closure of the
hospital, and he informed Yadkin County that the Department of Health and Human
Services would do everything legally possible to facilitate health care delivery
in Yadkin County, according to a statement from Yadkin County officials Thursday
afternoon.

In the press release, the county officials asked for patience as the county and
state governments work together to find a resolution. "This transition will take
some time, and Yadkin County asks that its citizens be understanding of this,"
read the release.

A hearing in Wake County on Monday is the next step in the process. The county,
with the help of healthcare attorney Allyson Labban of Smith Moore Leatherwood,
will be pursuing continuing legal action against HMC at the hearing in Raleigh.
The county plans to pursue legal action and request that the temporary
restraining order obtained on May 22 be a permanent restraining order to hold
HMC accountable for its early closure of the hospital.

The hospital has been the topic of hot debate in recent months. Despite legal
action on behalf of the county, the hospital shut down May 22. Since February,
the county has been in negotiations to find a new company to operate the
county-owned hospital building. When that failed, the county reentered
negotiations with the operator, HMC/CAH, but those negotiations also fell
through. After learning that HMC planned to shut down the hospital over the
weekend rather than fulfill its duty to remain open through its lease term which
ends July 31, the county took legal action to prevent the shutdown, but to no
avail.

During the opening session at an emergency meeting held by Yadkin County
commissioners Tuesday, County Manager Lisa Hughes read aloud from documentation
describing the county's ongoing financial difficulties with HMC. As part of the
original lease agreement with HMC, the group was to purchase land within two
years and build a new facility within four years, but in October of 2011, the
group filed for bankruptcy. Though the hospital remained open throughout the
bankruptcy proceedings, they were no longer able to pay rent to the county for
use of the hospital building. The county amended the lease with HMC several
times, no longer charging the group rent in exchange for using parts of the
facility for a county EMS center and health department clinic.

According to information presented to community members who serve on the
hospital's board, HMC has been able to turn around its financial losses and the
company has been making a profit, though they continued to use the county-owned
building rent-free. As the lease term was set to expire in April, the county
began discussing alternative options and began a Request for Proposal (RFP)
process in order to find another hospital organization to operate the facility.
During the RFP process, the county did enter a new lease agreement with HMC
allowing it to operate the hospital until July 31 while attempting to find a new
hospital operator.

Following the withdrawal of proposals from the three groups who submitted them,
the county then reentered negotiations with HMC. Per HMC's request via email to
Hughes, a new lease agreement was drawn up by the county under the same terms
suggested by Hugh Chatham Memorial Hospital in their submitted proposal, with
the exception of a $750,000 payment meant to assist Hugh Chatham in purchasing
the hospital assets from HMC.

HMC rejected this proposal and submitted documents requesting that a new lease
between HMC and the county include a $1.5 million payment by the county to HMC
upon signing of the lease and $300,000 per year in indigent care costs and to
provide them a $1 match for every $2 spent on capital improvements.

On the afternoon of May 22, HMC informed hospital employees that the county was
evicting them from the premises and they instructed everyone to leave. According
to county officials, the county had not issued an eviction notice, but rather
had gone to Wake County Superior Court for a court order to prevent HMC from
closing the hospital down early.

Karen Holbrook may be reached at 336-258-4059 or on Twitter @KarenHolbrook00.

___ (c)2015 The Tribune (Elkin, N.C.) Visit The Tribune (Elkin, N.C.) at
elkintribune.com Distributed by Tribune Content Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20150528-VN-Questions-remain-on-hospital-s-future-0528-20150528

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: VN


                           Copyright 2015 The Tribune


