                              408 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                      South China Morning Post (Hong Kong)

                                October 22, 1999

Sacked nurses take on Matilda over contract changes

BYLINE: ALISON SMITH

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 326 words


Nurses at the exclusive Matilda Hospital claim they are being fired for fighting
a legal battle over changes to their working conditions.

Two of five nurses who sought legal recourse over alleged breaches of contract
have been dismissed, although the hospital says their dismissal is coincidental.

One of them, Jeffrey Morris, says management told him seven days before he was
due to lodge unprecedented court action against the hospital that they could no
longer afford his services.

The New Zealander says he was ordered not to speak to other staff and that
security guards accompanied him to his nursing quarters and packers prepared his
possessions the next day for shipment home.

An estimated 250 other staff were handed new contracts last week to "eliminate
ambiguities" in the disputed contract. Staff have been given until today to sign
or face dismissal.

In a letter seen by the Post, chief executive officer Mary Rafferty says
changes, which include a two-week cut in annual leave, were "crucial to the
survival of the hospital" and brought "outdated" benefits in line with other
hospitals.

"If you are not prepared to accept the revised terms, we have, regrettably, no
option but to terminate your employment with the hospital," the letter
accompanying the new contract states.

Ms Rafferty said the Matilda was "a very fair employer" and that the intention
of the new contracts was not to reduce staff benefits.

She said she believed it was legal to threaten workers with dismissal if they
did not sign, since the letter had been approved by the hospital's lawyers.

"I'm prepared to let two or three people go if they won't sign them," she said.

It was coincidence the hospital had terminated contracts of two of the five
staff taking legal action against them. She said staff morale had not been
affected.

A Labour Department spokesman said it was considering the allegations against
the hospital.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: (Photo: Edmond So); Swift exit - New Zealander Jeffrey Morris says his
job was terminated seven days before he was due to bring a court action against
the hospital over changes to his contract.

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                  Copyright 1999 South China Morning Post Ltd.


