                              405 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                              Sunday Business Post

                                 April 17, 2011

Beacon considering its legal options on co-location losses

SECTION: IRELAND

LENGTH: 371 words


Beacon Medical Group (BMG) has refused to comment on mounting speculation this
weekend that it has lodged a complaint with the European Commission over the
collapse of its co-location deals with the state and the Health Service
Executive (HSE).

The hospital developer has been considering its legal options for a number of
weeks since the projects were culled. Sources said Beacon was also likely to
have lodged a complaint against the VHI with the European Commission's
competition directorate.

A HSE source said the executive had received correspondence from Beacon, saying
the developer had reserved its position.

He said the group had claimed its contracts had been unfairly terminated, but
that the HSE maintained the contracts had just expired.

VHI said it understood that BMG had signaled it might complain to the European
Commission.

It has been widely speculated that hospital developers with advanced co-location
plans, BMG and Synchrony, would take legal action over the scrapping of the
projects, as they had made substantial investments.

BMG has spent  30 million on its plans to date, and legal sources said the
consortiums could seek damages for future loss of earnings.

BMG and Synchrony had three 65-year contracts to lease grounds beside three
public hospitals.

BMG recently bought back the 40 per cent interest held by US multinational UPMC
in BMG's co-location hospitals.

The new government pledged to scrap previous health minister Mary Harney's
controversial hospital plan, unveiled in 2005, to build co-located private
hospitals on the grounds of public hospitals.

Earlier this month, at a meeting attending by health minister Dr James Reilly,
the HSE decided not to grant any further extensions to the project agreements
for those colocated units.

Speaking in the Dáil last week, Reilly said the developers would lose deposits
totalling  1.4 million following the scrapping of the projects. BMG and
Synchrony had signed project agreements with the state to build hospitals at
Beaumont and St James's Hospitals in Dublin, Cork University Hospital and
Limerick Regional Hospital.

Beacon and Synchrony declined to comment last week. The European Commission's
competition unit said it would not comment on individual cases.

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2011 Thomas Crosbie Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


