                              421 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                              The Washington Post

                             April 10, 2007 Tuesday
                                 Met 2 Edition

St. E's Still Lacks Staff, Court Is Told;
Advocates' Lawsuit Cites Dangers to Hospital Patients and Employees

BYLINE: Henri E. Cauvin; Washington Post Staff Writer

SECTION: METRO; Pg. B01

LENGTH: 903 words


St. Elizabeths, the District's public mental hospital, does not have enough
psychiatrists, psychologists or nurses to treat and supervise its patients, a
civil rights organization charged in court documents filed yesterday as part of
a lawsuit against the District.

Despite damning reports last year by federal investigators, the hospital has
failed to deal with staffing shortages that are at the root of problems ranging
from inadequate psychiatric care to unsanitary living conditions, University
Legal Services said.

For more than a year, the organization has been reviewing documents and deposing
witnesses as part of its 2005 lawsuit against the District. The examination has
bolstered its contention that the court must step in and order changes at the
Southeast Washington hospital, it said.

Patients and employees are in danger, according to University Legal Services,
which serves as a federally mandated advocate for disabled people in the
District.

In January, in a case that the plaintiffs say highlights the perils of
understaffing a psychiatric hospital, a patient who had become disruptive and
violent died when an employee tried to restrain him, according to authorities.
No charges have been filed in the death of Mark Harris, 39, who went into
cardiopulmonary arrest after the altercation.

An internal investigation by the D.C. Department of Mental Health found a number
of problems in how the incident was handled: A poorly timed shift change left
the staff short-handed; a registered nurse was not present in the area where the
incident took place; other employees were slow to respond to the initial call
for emergency assistance; oxygen tanks were locked away and not immediately
accessible, and one of the tanks that was eventually retrieved was not
functioning.

Traci L. Hughes, a spokeswoman for the D.C. attorney general's office, said the
city would respond in court to yesterday's filing and would not respond in the
media to any of the specific assertions or characterizations in the filing.

Two earlier deaths of patients led University Legal Services to begin examining
staffing levels at St Elizabeths, which has about 400 patients. In spring 2004,
a 55-year-old patient was stomped into a coma by another patient and eventually
died. Soon after that attack, a 76-year-old patient was fatally beaten by
another patient.

In its inquiry then, University Legal Services documented widespread
understaffing and excessive use of overtime, and it extracted promises for
increased staffing.

The Justice Department has echoed those concerns. Last year, it cited the two
deaths in warning that St. Elizabeths "fails to provide its patients with a
reasonably safe living environment."

University Legal Services says too little has changed.

An expert hired by the organization to evaluate the hospital concluded that St.
Elizabeths needs at least 16 more psychiatrists, 20 more psychologists and 60
additional nurses to properly care for patients in a safe, therapeutic
environment.

Instead, many patients go without meaningful treatment, according to both the
organization's expert and an expert hired by the hospital, University Legal
Services said. With too few employees and too little care, the hospital has
become a dangerous place that undermines its objectives, University Legal
Services said.

"The wards are a place of continual and unpredictable violence, creating an
atmosphere of fear that is pervasive and prevents recovery," the organization's
lawyers wrote in a 45-page memorandum filed in U.S. District Court.

In the 2006 fiscal year, the hospital recorded 261 patient-on-patient assaults,
up from 211 the previous year, and 93 patient-on-staff assaults, down from 121.
So far in the first five months of the current fiscal year, the hospital has
recorded 187 patient-on-patient assaults and 69 patient-on-staff assaults.

When he took office in January, Mayor Adrian M. Fenty (D) installed a new chief
operating officer at St. Elizabeths, tapping the head of the Department of
Consumer and Regulatory Affairs, Patrick Canavan, for another difficult
assignment. But he kept on the director of the Department of Mental Health,
Stephen T. Baron, who had been named to the job only last summer.

Mary Nell Clark, one of the attorneys suing the District, said that she has been
encouraged by the efforts of Canavan and Baron but that until the new leaders
have the funds they need to hire more people, the problems will persist.

"We have tremendous hope for the two of them, but they have to have the
resources of the Fenty administration, the D.C. Council and the community to
make this a humane place where people can heal," Clark said.

This newest round of criticism comes as the District wrestles with how it will
care for the mentally ill in years to come. Plans call for St. Elizabeths to
have a new home by 2009 after years of crumbling infrastructure. But it will be
smallerand will house fewer patients, as the city continues its effort to
provide more care out in the community for the mentally ill population.

Advocates have welcomed the prospect of more community-based care and the
possibility that more St. Elizabeths patients will eventually be able to return
to the community and receive quality care.

But for that day to come, Clark said, St. Elizabeths has to do its job right.

"We want people in the community, but they need a place when they're in crisis
where they can recover," Clark said.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: DC

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2007 The Washington Post
                              All Rights Reserved


