                              420 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                          Argus Weekend (South Africa)

                                  May 02, 2010
                                   E1 Edition

Botched operations cost taxpayers R1bn;
Minister slams doctors - lawsuit payouts 'unacceptable'

BYLINE:  edwin naidu

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 693 words


the country's state hospital doctors have cost taxpayers more than R1 billion in
lawsuits after botched operations - in just two years.

An investigation by Weekend Argus's sister paper The Sunday Independent, has
found that provincial health departments have had to pay out millions to
compensate patients left shattered by the negligence of public sector doctors.

Health Minister Aaron Motsoaledi said the amount paid out in lawsuits was
"unacceptable" and he has called for an investigation into reasons for the
increase in litigation. His spokesman Fidel Hadebe said: "We have heard about
cases in which patients have had surgical gloves, in some cases, scissors, left
inside them, both in public and private hospitals."

Motsoaledi recently told Parliament's health portfolio committee that he is
planning to launch an investigation because the crisis at provincial hospitals
had resulted in a groundswell of complaints to the national health department.

Just three weeks into the new financial year, the department has already paid
out R87 million in legal bills and has 294 cases pending. Doctors from the
KwaZulu-Natal Health Department, which has an overdraft of R3.5bn, rank as the
worst in the country - their misdeeds have resulted in the department paying
R547m in lawsuits in 2009/2010 and R376m in 2008/2009.

Doctors in the Western Cape cost the department R6m and R4m in the same years,
respectively. Mpumalanga spent R19m last year on medically-related legal bills
compared with R666 643 in 2008/2009 financial year. Last year Gauteng spent R10m
on medical legal fees compared with R2.8m in the previous year while the
North-West spent R1.7m and R11.5m. The Free State health department paid out
R577 000 in medical legal fees last year and R916 000 the year before. The
Eastern Cape paid over R8m in legal fees last year, the Northern Cape has spent
R23m in legal fees since 2007. Limpopo refused to disclose what it had paid out
in lawsuits.

Motsoaledi said doctors and nurses were ignoring regulations on patient care.

Some of the recent shocking cases of patient neglect and lawsuits include:

l In March a Wynberg woman launched a Cape High Court damages action against
Western Cape premier Helen Zille, alleging that Tygerberg Hospital staff failed
to remove a portion of her placenta after she gave birth there, resulting in her
suffering septicaemia and cardiogenic shock. She is suing the premier for R495
000, saying she is responsible for the administration of the state hospital.

l In Mpumalanga, the department paid out R14m after being sued for R27m in a
case in which a child born at the Mmamethlake hospital had medical problems from
negligence on the part of staff. The child will require permanent care.

l The father of a 15-year-old child launched a R12m claim against Alberton
neurosurgeon Jaap W Earle two weeks ago. The boy became blind following a
"minor" operation in 1999;

l In November, two-year-old Thembisa Kometsi, who was admitted to the Far East
Rand Hospital and later transferred to Charlotte Maxeke Academic Hospital for
burns on her hands had both legs amputated in error. A legal and disciplinary
process is underway.

l Jayanthie Devi Sonny, who gave birth to a baby with Down's Syndrome in
November 2002, is suing the KwaZulu-Natal Health Department for R6.6m, saying
she would have terminated the pregnancy if she had been informed that there was
risk of her child suffering any abnormality;

l A Mpumalanga mother who lost her baby in November, allegedly due to the
negligence of doctors and nurses at Philadelphia Hospital in Dennilton, is
claiming R550 000 from the Mpumalanga Department of Health.

l Last November a Durban man sued the KwaZulu-Natal health department for R700
000 after losing the use of his right hand in a botched operation. In December
2007 Roderick Skinner was having a benign turmour removed from his arm at
Addington Hospital when a nerve was cut. The Health Department denies the
hospital was negligent.

l In KwaZulu-Natal, at King Edward Hospital, a newborn baby who was healthy on
discharge died three days later because it had not passed meconium, which meant
that a protocol had been ignored.

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: CZ


                 Copyright 2010 Independent News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


