                              416 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                      Foster's Daily Democrat, Dover, N.H

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            October 2, 2012 Tuesday
                              Correction Appended

Exeter Hospital wants freeze on legal discoveries in hep c outbreak

BYLINE: Jim Haddadin, Foster's Daily Democrat, Dover, N.H.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 715 words


Oct. 02--BRENTWOOD -- Exeter Hospital is asking a superior court judge to
temporarily block attorneys from using their legal powers to request documents
and information about the hepatitis C outbreak at the facility.

Exeter Hospital is named in 25 lawsuits filed in Rockingham Superior Court by
former patients who now carry the liver disease. That includes a class-action
lawsuit filed by Concord attorney Peter McGrath, whose clients now include 147
former Exeter Hospital patients. A handful have tested positive for the disease.
The remainder either received a negative test result or are awaiting more
information.

An attorney representing Exeter Hospital against the lawsuits filed a motion
Friday in Rockingham County Superior Court asking a judge to issue a temporary
stay of discovery in the cases. The move would stop the lawyers from forcing
employees such as Chief Executive Officer Kevin Callahan to give sworn
statements about the hepatitis C outbreak.

It would also prevent them from questioning the doctors and nurses who worked
side-by-side with David Kwiatkowski, the former Exeter Hospital cardiovascular
technician facing drug tampering charges in connection with the hepatitis C
outbreak.

Federal investigators say the 33-year-old spread the virus to patients in the
process of abusing stolen hospital narcotics. Kwiatkowski, a traveling hospital
worker, allegedly stole syringes of the anesthesia drug fentanyl, injected
himself, then allowed syringes contaminated with his blood to be reused on
patients.

Genetic testing has confirmed that 32 patients of the hospital are carrying the
identical strain of the virus diagnosed in Kwiatkowski.

Attorney Peter Mosseau, of Nelson Kinder + Mosseau, the law firm representing
the hospital, has asked the judge to freeze discovery actions until at least 90
days after a structuring conference is held with defendants in the lawsuit.

Those defendants are likely to include at least two former medical staffing
companies that employed Kwiatkowski. At least one attorney is also asking a
judge to add the American Registry of Radiologic Technologists (ARRT) as one of
the defendants. ARRT is the group that provided a radiology certificate for
Kwiatkowski when he was later hired at Exeter Hospital.

Kwiatkowski has been employed as a traveling medical technician in at least 19
hospitals in eight states during the last decade, including stints in New York,
Maryland, Michigan, Georgia, Kansas, Arizona and Pennsylvania. His arrest has
spurred more than a dozen hospitals to begin reviewing their patient records to
identify people who may have been exposed to the virus.

At least four patients of the Hays Medical Center in Kansas, where Kwiatkowski
worked in 2010, have also been diagnosed with cases of hepatitis C "closely
related" to the strain identified in the Exeter Hospital outbreak.

Before he was hired in Exeter, Kwiatkowski was fired by hospitals in
Pennsylvania and Arizona due to problems with his conduct. In one instance in
2010, Kwiatkowski was found passed out inside a men's restroom while working at
the Arizona Heart Hospital.

According to documents obtained by Foster's Daily Democrat, the hospital worker
who found Kwiatkowski reported finding a syringe labeled "fentanyl" floating
inside the toilet beside him.

Springboard Staffing, which supplied Kwiatkowski to work at Arizona Heart
Hospital, said it fired Kwiatkowski immediately and told both a state radiology
board and ARRT that Kwiatkowski had been terminated after the 2010 incident. The
incident was never investigated because Kwiatkowski moved out of the state and
gave up his certification to work in Arizona.

He went on to work in hospitals in Pennsylvania, Kansas and Georgia before
reaching New Hampshire.

Hepatitis C is a liver disease that can lead to fatal health complications. It
is transferred through direct blood contact or from unsterilized or contaminated
equipment used or handled by a person infected with the virus. The hepatitis C
virus can't be contracted through casual contact, meaning you can't get
hepatitis C from shaking hands, hugging or sitting next to an infected person.

___ (c)2012 the Foster's Daily Democrat (Dover, N.H.) Visit the Foster's Daily
Democrat (Dover, N.H.) at www.fosters.com Distributed by MCT Information
Services

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20121002-1FD-Exeter-Hospital-wants-freeze-on-legal
-discoveries-in-hep-c-outbreak-1002-20121002

CORRECTION-DATE: October 3, 2012



CORRECTION:

Because of a reporter's error, the number of clients who have joined a class
action lawsuit against Exeter Hospital was incorrect in a story on Page 1 in
Tuesday's paper. A total of 180 clients have joined the suit

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1FD


               Copyright 2012 Foster's Daily Democrat, Dover, N.H


