                              415 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                            January 11, 1998, Sunday

Hospital legal fees about $ 8.8-million

BYLINE: AMY J. SCHATZ

SECTION: HERNANDO TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 840 words



Wondering who the real winners of the Regional Healthcare Inc. bankruptcy
dispute will be?

The answer is one thing that has never been questioned in this case: the
lawyers.

Five years of bankruptcy protection has meant five years of $ 150-an-hour  legal
advice, five years of costly mandatory monthly financial reports and  five years
of miscellaneous expenses - from $ 800 airline tickets to $ 8 gas  station
receipts.

An analysis by the Times of the legal and accounting fees rung up since
Regional Healthcare sought bankruptcy protection in February 1993 has set the
price tag at roughly $ 8.8-million. That's equivalent to spending almost $ 5,000

 a day, every day, for the past five years for legal and financial advice. That

 number will certainly rise before the last motion is filed in the case.

Why so much? No one ever said bankruptcy was cheap.

Under federal law, Regional Healthcare must reimburse legal expenses  granted by
the bankruptcy court. So far, the court has awarded about  $ 3.21-million in
such expenses. The money likely will be paid from the more  than $ 32-million in
cash Regional Healthcare has amassed during the past few  years.

And while neither Hernando County nor Regional Healthcare's main creditor,  CNA
Insurance Cos. of Chicago, has filed for reimbursement of fees, both plan  to.

"We've filed a claim (of intent) with the court for our legal fees,"  County
Attorney Bruce Snow said. CNA's spokesman said the company's lawyers  have done
likewise. Both said they would file for actual reimbursement after  the case has
been resolved.

At times, some in the Regional Healthcare case have wondered whether that  day
would come. Regional Healthcare has become somewhat infamous at the U.S.
Bankruptcy Court in Tampa, where employees of the clerk's office roll their
eyes when asked about the case, which fills 63 binders and has 1,104 docket
entries.

The case is sure to fill a few more binders this month, since Regional
Healthcare and its creditors are due in court Thursday to arrive at a
resolution.

This week, at least two important meetings will be held on Regional  Healthcare.
Before Thursday's court session, the County Commission will get an  update
Tuesday on the case. The commission will also take up the question of  whether
they want Regional Healthcare's hospitals - Brooksville and Spring  Hill
Regional Hospital and PineBrook Regional Medical Center - to remain  non-profit.

During the last two weeks, the hospital board has been debating offers from
three hospital companies, one non-profit and two for-profit.

County Commission Chairwoman Nancy Robinson said Tuesday's meeting will be  a
chance for commissioners and the public to learn what turning the non-profit
Regional Healthcare over to a for-profit company could mean.

"This will be more than an update," Robinson said. "The board needs to  discuss
the issue of for-profit versus non-profit. The goal here is for the  community
to maintain the facilities, maintain the level of quality and  indigent care we
have now."

The county has a say in the matter because it owns Brooksville Regional
Hospital and leases it. If Regional Healthcare affiliates with or is taken  over
by a for-profit company, the county's lease would be broken, and a new  one
would be needed.

By the end of last week, Regional Healthcare did not have a final deal with  any
of the three hospital companies with which it has been talking. Regional
Healthcare chief executive officer Tom Barb said discussions are continuing.

The hospital board has been trying to find a partner since deciding it was
unlikely the hospitals could pay off $ 82-million in debt the bankruptcy court
ruled last year that they would have to pay.

If the board approves an affiliation, there is a possibility that Regional
Healthcare's 5-year-old bankruptcy dispute could be settled out of court.

If an affiliation does not happen, both Regional Healthcare and CNA will  return
to bankruptcy court Thursday morning. That hearing will decide once and  for all
what will happen to Regional Healthcare's facilities.

Will Regional Healthcare be allowed to stay independent and work out how it
will repay its $ 82-million debt, or will CNA be awarded control of the
hospitals?



Fee facts

Amount of fees reimbursed through the U.S. Bankruptcy Court: $ 3.21-million
(Lawyers: $ 2.06-million  Accountants: $ 1.14-million)

Amount of fees pending before U.S. Bankruptcy Court: $ 159,765.03  (Lawyers: $
17,775.05  Accountants: $ 141,989.98)

Estimated amount in legal fees accrued by creditors CNA Insurance Cos.:  $
5-million

Estimated amount in legal fees accrued by Hernando County: $ 300,000

Estimated grand total of fees for bankruptcy to date: $ 8.8-million

Number of days since bankruptcy was filed: 1,780

Estimated cost per day in fees for RHI bankruptcy case: $ 4,944

Sources: U.S. Bankruptcy Court filings; CNA Insurance Cos.; Hernando County
Attorney

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: HERNANDO TIMES

GRAPHIC: COLOR CHART; looks at the fee facts surrounding the bankruptcy of
Regional Healthcare, includes a drawing of a bag of money and stacks of coins

                    Copyright 1998 Times Publishing Company


