                              44 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                           Hobart Mercury (Australia)

                            March 7, 1998, Saturday

Hospital lease fears Legal alert on plan at Queen Alex

BYLINE: Matthew Rogers

LENGTH: 376 words


STATE Government plans to allow private health services at the Queen

Alexandra Hospital could become a complex legal minefield.

Private hospitals whose bids to lease space in the hospital are

rejected could launch legal action against the State Government,

documents obtained by The Mercury reveal.

Legal advice provided to the Tasmanian Private Hospitals Association

reckons unsuccessful bidders could seek a Supreme Court order to set

aside Health Minister Peter McKay's decision to grant a licence to the

successful tenderer.

The advice suggests the successful bidder for a leasehold on the top

three floors of the Queen Alexandra is likely to have a significant

market advantage through on-site access to facilities at the Royal

Hobart Hospital.

It says the three major private hospitals in southern Tasmania _ St

Helens, St Johns and Calvary _ all stand to have their profitability,

and possibly their viability, threatened if they are not the

successful tenderer, which could be granted additional private bed

licences.

Under the Hospitals Act it is also possible the minister's motives for

awarding the licence to a private operator could be questioned.

The Act states that, in considering a licence application, the

minister must take into account whether there are already adequate

health care facilities for the present and future health care needs of

the area.

If any concerns that his decision was instead based on obtaining the

best price for the Government could be proven, the decision could be

liable to be set aside by the court.

Private Hospitals Association president David Swan could not be

contacted to comment on the legal advice.

Royal Hobart chief executive John Dixon said the four short-listed

tenderers had all been advised to seek legal advice on the Hospitals

Act.

Mr Dixon said the Government's evaluation criteria had been widely

heralded and financial aspects were only one of the criteria.

"The service delivery factor is a larger component of the

evaluation," he said.

The Government expects to receive final proposals from the

short-listed tenderers, which all operate in Tasmania, on March 30.

An announcement on the successful bidder will be made at the end of

April.

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: MER

                   Copyright 1998 Nationwide News Pty Limited


