                              419 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                            Manchester Evening News

                            August 13, 2016 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Dead mum's family takes action against under-fire hospital trust;
pennine acute have been accused of clinical negligence following death

BYLINE: Paul Britton

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 568 words


THE family of a mum-of-two who died after miscarrying are taking legal action
against under-fire hospital trust Pennine Acute, alleging clinical negligence.

Nanaaishat Momodu, 32, from Middleton, was 22 weeks pregnant when she lost her
baby at North Manchester General Hospital.

She was admitted with abdominal pain last October but died two days later after
her condition worsened.

Nanaaishat miscarried before she got to the hospital, but her family claim she
was told she would have to wait 48 hours to see if she would go into labour
naturally.

They allege that she wasn't given correct treatment quickly enough and also
criticised staffing levels.

Pennine Acute, which runs North Manchester General, the Royal Oldham Hospital,
Fairfield General and Rochdale Infirmary, has been branded 'inadequate' in a
scathing report by the Care Quality Commission.

The CQC uncovered severe under-staffing within maternity, neonatal and
paediatrics. In maternity, it found 'a poor culture with deeply entrenched
attitudes where some staff accepted suboptimal care as the norm.' .

At the time of the February inspection, there were 170 serious maternity and
gynaecology incidents still yet to be dealt with, 13 of which involved severe
harm or death.

News of the legal action was confirmed after an inquest into Nanaaishat's death
was opened and adjourned at Manchester Coroners Court. Coroner Nigel Meadows
said he has received a copy of an internal investigation report carried out by
the hospital.

A wholesale needed carried out public Solicitor Zak Independent experts in
obstetrics and midwifery could be appointed by the court to give evidence at the
inquest and Mr Meadows said health professionals at the hospital involved in the
case could seek to have their own legal representation at the hearing. He said:
"My initial impression is that this was not a case where there was no system.
There was a system. It comes down to individual clinical judgement."

Nanaaishat's brother, Abeni Momodu, took his sister to the hospital after she
began to feel unwell. Once there, no fetal heartbeat was detected, the hearing
was told.

Speaking to the M.E.N. after her death, Mr Momodu said his sister was clearly
unwell and was begging medics to remove the baby, but she was given only
paracetamol for pain.

Her condition deteriorated over a weekend and she was taken into surgery on a
Sunday night. She died hours later.

Zak Golombeck, of Manchester law firm Slater and Gordon, said the firm had been
instructed to investigate claims of clinical negligence at Pennine Acute.

review is and must be to restore confidence Golombeck He said: "We act for a
number of people who have very serious allegations to make about the care they
received at these hospitals.

"Like Nanaaishat's family, they just want answers and to find out if more should
have been done to protect their loved ones.

"The recent findings of the Care Quality Commission will be upsetting and
concerning for them, but will come as no surprise. A wholesale review is needed
and must be carried out urgently to restore public confidence and ensure the
highest standards of safety and care for patients in the future."

The trust has been approached for comment.

legal action was an Nanaaishat's was carried experts in Manchester and firm i
who serious to make care they A wholesale review is needed and must be carried
out to restore public confidence Solicitor Zak Golombeck

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: North Manchester General Hospital

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: MEN


                     Copyright 2016 Manchester Evening News
                              All Rights Reserved


