                              414 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                           January 1, 2014 Wednesday

Family of Jahi McMath in legal fight with Children's Hospital

LENGTH: 321  words


There are new accusations and a new legal fight Tuesday evening in the battle
between Children's Hospital Oakland and the family of a 13-year-old girl left
brain dead after a tonsil surgery nearly three weeks ago.


This comes one day after an Alameda County judge ordered Jahi McMath be kept on
a ventilator for one more week.
McMath's mother spends her time by her daughter's bedside looking for signs of
life, hoping for another day. "Because, I look at her and I feel like, as her
mother, I'm supposed to be able to help her. And this hospital has my hands
tied," said Jahi's mother Nailah Winkfield.In the meantime, the battle over the
brain dead teen's future is squarely in the hands of the lawyers and perhaps, a
federal appeals court.
"So, this is a constantly changing game for these folks and it's not a game for
Jahi," said McMath family lawyer Christopher Dolan.
McMath's family and Children's Hospital Oakland have both filed legal briefs in
local and federal court.
The family says they have identified a facility in New York, called New
Beginnings, which is willing to take Jahi on a ventilator. They've even raised
more than $30,000 on a crowd-funding website to pay for air transport across the
country.
But first, the family says any facility willing to accept Jahi McMath requires
both a tracheotomy and a feeding tube procedure performed on the girl, something
the hospital continues to refuse to do.
"What the family attorney is demanding is for surgery to be done, for anesthesia
to be applied to someone who is deceased, that's just not done," said Children's
Hospital Oakland spokesperson Sam Singer.
"Pretty much we want Children's Hospital to either help us or get out of our
way," said Jahi's Uncle Omari Sealey.
Late Monday, an Alameda County Superior Court judge ordered Children's Hospital
Oakland to keep McMath on a ventilator through January 7, 2014. That is also
when a hearing is set in federal court.

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


