                              413 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                December 9, 1997

Court bid to win nursing home place;Bed-blocking trap

BYLINE: Exclusive Ian Smith

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 614 words


AN Edinburgh woman has begun legal moves to bring the first Scottish test case
over the bed-blocking crisis in hospitals.

Mrs Jessy Hall, 79, from Bonny-rigg, near Edinburgh, has been in hospital since
April despite finishing her medical treatment in July, and claims Midlothian
Council is failing to meet its obligations under social work legislation.

Her family say a nursing home place is available but the council's financial
restrictions mean she cannot be moved to it.

A lawyer working on her behalf has met with a QC, beginning the legal process
towards a judicial review of the bed-blocking situation. Bed-blocking is the
common term for the situation which sees elderly people being kept in hospital
because local authority social work departments do not have the funds to provide
the nursing or residential care they need.

Mrs Hall is applying for a judicial review on the basis that by not providing
her with the care recommended in a social work assessment, the social work
department of Midlothian Council is in breach of its statutory obligations under
the Social Work Scotland Act 1968.

Mrs Hall is applying for legal aid to fund the move and, according to Fighting
for Elderly At Risk (Fear), the Edinburgh-based voluntary organisation which is
supporting her legal bid, two more Edinburgh women are also planning legal
action, with more expected to follow throughout the country.

Mrs Hall was admitted to hospital last April after suffering a stroke and,
despite being assessed by social workers as needing nursing care in July, she is
still in the long-stay ward of an Edinburgh hospital.

Her daughter, Mrs Janette Barnes, said resorting to legal action had come only
after exhausting all other means of getting her mother out of hospital.

She said: "I'm quite prepared to have my mother's case used as a precedent,
simply because if she's in this position how many more are.

"If we pursue this and manage to get my mother off the list, there will still be
some other poor soul having to wait. My mother is my priority but, hopefully, we
can help other people in the same position.

"The situation can't be allowed to continue because it's just going to get
worse."

Mrs Aileen Banks, who set up FEAR two years ago after her mother was a victim of
bed-blocking, said the legal move was just the beginning of a series.

She said: "Instead of presenting a big block of legal writs at one time, we
would like to serve one-a-week to keep the pressure up. We hope we can get it to
court as quickly as possible.

"It's going to open the floodgates, especially when people realise this can be
done on legal aid.

"People are worried about the cost of lawyers but when they see that something
can be done, I

think we will be snowed under with people wanting to take the same course of
action."

A spokeswoman for Help the Aged said: "This is happening in local authorities
across the country and is totally unacceptable."

Mr Andrew Reid, chairman of the Association of Directors of Social Work's
committee on care in the community, acknowledged the bed-blocking problem but
said finding a solution would be more difficult.

He said: "Bed-blocking is a problem in various parts of the country and it is in
no-one's interests, certainly not the people waiting to move out of hospital and
not for the health service who could use the blocked beds for people who need
hospital treatment.

"It's such a complex matter, there's no easy solution. The way forward has to
involve all the parties, including local authorities and health boards and
trusts meeting to discuss and agree the best use of the available resources."

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 1997

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1997 Caledonian Newspapers Ltd.


