                              422 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                            Odessa American (Texas)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              June 26, 2009 Friday

Hospital trustee criminal assault case: Further legal action by board
unnecessary after Torres' complies

BYLINE: Matthew Mcgowan, Odessa American, Texas

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 452 words


Jun. 26--About six weeks after Ector County Hospital District trustee Abraham
Torres turned himself in to police on misdemeanor charges in connection to
reportedly assaulting the board's secretary, a plea bargain has yet to be
reached and the case could go to trial.

Any lingering legal issues between Torres and the hospital board, however, have
been resolved after he yielded to the board's threat to take legal action
forcing the trustee to submit the paperwork at the heart of the dispute.

Following the incident, the board convened for a special meeting on May 7 to
discuss Torres' actions and officially admonished the local real estate business
owner for allegedly hitting Delma Marin, then the board's secretary, with a
"closed fist" when she and another hospital employee went to his office to pick
up application paperwork for federal funding, according to Marin's written
complaint.

After Marin pressed charges, police said, Torres turned himself in to the Ector
County Sheriff's Office and posted bond.

During its special meeting on May 7, the board also threatened to take legal
action if Torres persisted in his refusal to submit the paperwork, which
officials said included routine personal information all board members must fill
out to apply for federal reimbursement.

Since the meeting, hospital attorney Richard Buck said, Torres has filed the
paperwork and complied with the board's requests, settling any possible further
action by the hospital district.

"We got that resolved," Buck said. "He voluntarily furnished that, and we
appreciate it."

As for the criminal case, Ector County Attorney Cindy Weir-Nutter said, a deal
could be reached at any time that keeps the case from going to court.

As to when or if the case will actually see a courtroom, Weir-Nutter said, it's
"really hard to tell at this point."

If convicted, she said, Torres could face up to a $4,000 fine and no more than a
year imprisonment.

Torres declined comment, directing press inquiries to his attorney.

"I just can't comment about anything right now," Torres said. "I wish I could,
but I just can't."

Repeated attempts by the OA to reach Torres' attorney, Steve Brannan, have
yielded no results.

Marin, who left her job at Medical Center Hospital shortly after filing charges
against Torres, could not be reached for comment.

To see more of the Odessa American, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.oaoa.com. Copyright (c) 2009, Odessa American, Texas Distributed by
McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20090626-OD-Hospital-trustee-criminal-assault-case-0626

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: OD


                         Copyright 2009 Odessa American


