                              427 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                                Western Gazette

                             May 14, 2015 Thursday

Frightening effects of taking legal highs

SECTION: NEWS:OTHER; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 575  words


A MAN with both feet on the ground had to be rescued from clinging to a wall on
West Hendford thinking he was 1,000 feet up after taking a so-called legal high.

Police are warning users and dealers of new psychoactive substances (NPS) to
think twice about taking the narcotics due to the strain it puts on the
emergency services which have to pick up the pieces afterwards.

They have revealed they are treating the so-called legal highs as unknown
substances until the narcotic's true ingredients are established by a
laboratory.

Sergeant Rich Barnett of Yeovil police said: "If we find someone with legal
highs we will look to seize the substances using our power to arrest them with
supplying or possession of drugs.

"It will be up to a laboratory to determine whether it is an unlawful substance
or whether - even if it is a legal substance - there are some ingredients in
there which are unknown to the supplier that could fall under the Misuse of
Drugs Act."

Legal highs that are actually legal contain one or more chemical substances
which produce similar effects to illegal drugs. However, many are not yet
controlled under the Misuse of Drugs Act 1971.

Sergeant Barnett added that aside from the obvious dangers of inhaling an
unknown substance, there could also be serious knock-on consequences for other
members of the community.

He said: "There is also the public safety side of it, perhaps someone who has
taken something comes into contact with a member of the public and is violent
towards them, or is violent towards the ambulance crews that has to deal with
them.

"Then there is the hospital staff that then has to care for them and the police
officers that have to support them.

"It is not unusual for someone who has had a reaction to drugs being in hospital
for a couple of days, and it is not unusual for a police officer to have to stay
in hospital to ensure they are not a threat to hospital staff. This puts an
increasing demand on us and takes away our capability to help other victims of
crime.

"The bottom line is that legal highs are under scrutiny because the true
ingredients are not known to the supplier and only the manufacturer.

"I dare say a fair few are not bothered if they are overstepping the mark if
they are putting in substances under the Misuse of Drugs Act."

Sergeant Pete Paskin of Yeovil police echoed Sergeant Barnett's call for people
not to run the risk of taking the narcotics. He said: "A few weeks ago we had an
incident of a gent clinging to a wall on West Hendford thinking he was 1,000
feet above the ground. That took two police crews and an ambulance to rescue
him. Those resources could be better deployed elsewhere."

He explained there was no specific legislation in place to directly cover NPS
and officers were limited to the powers they could exert. But he added the force
was working with Braddicks in Yeovil who had scaled back on the substances they
were selling as a result of discussions.

"More importantly for people thinking about taking NPS, it is dangerous," he
said. "You don't know what is in them - they cause people to do very strange
things. It is not regulated at all. They do have warnings on them that say not
for human consumption.

"The legislation to control them properly will come in, but it will take time.
We are looking forward to having that legislation in place. We have been wanting
more legislation for years and the positive news is that there is cross-party
support for it."

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: police warning: Sergeant Rich Barnett outside Yeovil District Hospital.
He says the emergency services are left to pick up the pieces from legal highs
gone wrong.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2015 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved


