                              430 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                              July 29, 2013 Monday

LICH legal battle have your head spinning? Let The Explainer explain

LENGTH: 586  words


Judges have issued multiple court orders demanding the state keep Long Island
College Hospital functioning like it was before officials decided to shutter it
after 155 years in operation. Managers of the Cobble Hill institution insist
that they have followed those orders to the letter, but hospital advocates say
that the state has reduced the hospital to a shell of its former self - and
broken the law in the process. What is going on in court and what does it mean
for the hobbled Brooklyn health care facility? The Explainer breaks it down:


What, exactly, are the courts demanding?
Judges have issued three restraining orders in recent weeks that prohibit the
state from taking steps to close the hospital until lawsuits filed by the New
York State Nurses Association, a union representing hospital nurses, and public
advocate and mayoral hopeful Bill DeBlasio are settled.
If the court says the state cannot do anything to close the hospital, how could
the state divert ambulances and stop admitting patients?
Appeals. Last month, a state Supreme Court judge said that the state is breaking
the law by closing the hospital to ambulances and new overnight patients. But
the state has appealed that decision, as it has the right to do. Right now, the
order DeBlasio obtained has been thrown out and enforcement of the other two has
been suspended until at least Aug. 7, when another contempt hearing is
scheduled.
Okay, so it sounds like the hospital is in legal limbo. What does that mean for
would-be patients and the sick people still inside?
Last week, appeals Judge Robert Miller told state officials that they have to
maintain hospital service at current levels. That means no ambulances and no
overnight admissions, but also no patient transfers and no emergency room
closure. In other words: if you cut yourself while chopping vegetables, you can
take a cab to the emergency room and get stitched up. But if, say, you fracture
your skull rock climbing, an ambulance would have to deliver you to another
emergency room. As for the 10-or-so patients still inside, the hospital is
supposed to continue treating them until they are ready for discharge. However,
one elderly patient disappeared last week under mysterious circumstances.
If the state closes the hospital when judges say it should not, what are the
consequences? Could anyone end up in jail?
That is extremely unlikely. If judges continue to reprimand the state for moving
to close the hospital, the state agencies responsible could face escalating
fines. This legal scenario played out over the course of 25 years with the
city's Department of Homeless Services, which faced a barrage of lawsuits, court
orders, and contempt rulings for failing to address conditions at homeless
shelters. Homeless Services agreed to sweeping new guidelines in 2008 only after
paying out millions in court-ordered fines.

What does all this mean for Long Island College Hospital?
It is going condo. The state, with Gov. Cuomo's blessing, has done everything to
close the hospital short of bussing out the remaining patients and firing the
staff. The bottom line is that a court cannot make the money appear in state
budgets so, unless state lawmakers change their minds in a hurry, the hospital's
days are numbered. Even if a restraining order remains in effect, state
officials could decide that a fine is a necessary evil that will eventually lead
to a probable $500 million real estate payday it gets when it sells the land the
hospital sits on to developers.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2013 Legal Monitor Worldwide
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


