                              429 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            November 26, 2010 Friday
                                 Mersey Edition

City figures plead for end to Royal legal bid

BYLINE: Liza Williams

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 450 words


LEADING business figures last night pleaded with campaigners to drop a legal
challenge threatening the new pounds 451m Royal Liverpool Hospital.

The five men, including Liverpool Chamber of Commerce chief executive Jack
Stopforth and Rod Holmes, chairman of The Mersey Partnership, wrote to the Daily
Post to say the rebuilt hospital could be the key to the city's long-term
economic revival.

They said failure to build a biocampus next to the hospital could result in the
loss of tens of thousands of new jobs in the bio-science, construction and
healSh sectors.

The Daily Post revealed last week how the hospital project was in doubt.

A High Court judgment threw out a bid by Keep Our NHS Public campaigner Sam
Semoff to take the plans to a judicial review.

But he appealed immediately, filing for an oral hearing.

Chiefs said this delay could make companies bidding to build the project
nervous, putting it in jeopardy.

But Mr Semoff is convinced the use of Private Finance Initiative cash to build
the hospital will leave Merseyside's health service in crippling debt for years
to come. He said this will have a detrimental effect on future services.

In a direct plea to Mr Semoff and his supporters, the letter said: "We call on
those sponsoring the ongoing legal challenge to not jeopardise the city's
economic future at a time when our recovery could be threatened by large-scale
cuts in public sector spending and employment.

"The legal challenge threatens not only a vitally important new hospital but
also puts at risk tens of thousands of new jobs in construction, research and
bio-science. There are no other funding or deliverable mechanisms available."

The biocampus, set to be built next to the hospital, could generate pounds 1bn
in 10 years, but without the new Royal it will not happen.

It aims to build on the city's world-class research facilities at Liverpool
University, the Royal and the School of Tropical Medicine to establish Liverpool
as a leading international centre for research.

Mr Stopforth and Mr Holmes's names were joined by Max Steinberg, chief executive
of Liverpool Vision; John Flamson, director of strategic partnerships and
development at Liverpool University; and Frank McKenna, chairman of Downtown
Liverpool In Business. Mr Semoff said: "If these people are willing to put up
the half a billion pounds to cover the cost of PFI over the next 30 years, I
will drop the suit.

"They are taking a very short-term view. Are they not aware of the damage PFI
could do to our future healthcare system? "I have had countless letters of
support - there is a whole group of people fighting for this.

"The debt payments could pay for more frontline care."

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  Sam Semoff Clouded in doubt: an artist's impression of the new Royal
Liverpool Hospital, with the main hospital to the right

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: dp


                       Copyright 2010 Trinity Mirror plc
                              All Rights Reserved


