                              431 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                          The Journal (Newcastle, UK)

                          February 27, 2008 Wednesday

Contract Win Brings Health Rolefor Ward Hadaway

BYLINE: Iain Laing

SECTION: Pg. 26

LENGTH: 352 words


LAW firm Ward Hadaway will be providing advice on a proposed new £400m hospital
on Teesside after its latest contract win.

The Newcastle-based firm has been chosen by North Tees and Hartlepool NHS
Foundation Trust to provide external legal advice on, among  other things, all
commercial projects and property matters for the next three years. The
appointment was made following a competitive tender.

Melanie Pears, partner and head of public sector at Ward Hadaway, said: "This is
fantastic news. North Tees  and Hartlepool NHS Foundation  Trust is a dynamic
organisation and we are thrilled to be working with them.

"We are very pleased to be able to offer all our skills, experience and
capabilities to the Trust to ensure that the community it serves gets the best
possible health services."

One of the major projects on which Ward Hadaway will advise North Tees and
Hartlepool is the recommend- ation for a new hospital to serve people living in
Hartlepool, Stockton, Easington and parts of Sedgefield.

Chief executive of North Tees and Hartlepool NHS Foundation Trust Alan Foster
said: "We're pleased to have Ward Hadaway working with us on the new hospital. A
project of this size is a major undertaking and it's imperative that we have the
best legal advice available as we go through the process of achieving our
vision."

The three-year agreement to assist the Trust with the majority of its legal
needs is the latest in a series of major contracts Ward Hadaway has secured in
the health and public sectors.

Last year, it was appointed as sole external legal adviser to County Durham and
Darlington NHS Foundation Trust and as joint external legal advisor to
Middlesbrough, Darlington, Hartlepool, Redcar and Cleveland and Stockton
councils for  five years.

In December, Ward Hadaway also helped Tees Esk and Wear Valleys NHS Trust
achieve a successful financial close on a pioneering £75m PFI scheme to replace
St Luke's Hospital in Middlesbrough.

The project will see a new 312-bed mental health facility built next to the
existing hospital in Marton Road. Ward Hadaway now represents more than 50 NHS
clients.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2008 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


