                              424 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                             October 5, 2015 Monday

Indrani's forensic report is final, clarifies Dr Lahane

BYLINE: Santosh Andhale

LENGTH: 439  words


Q & A Dr TP Lahane

Two conflicting reports about the health of Indrani Mukherjea, prime accused in
the sensational Sheena Bora murder case, had sent the media into a tizzy. The
Kalina Forensic Science Laboratory (KFSL) report, submitted to the Maharashtra
government, concluded that Indrani's blood, urine and stomach wash tested
negative for any poisonous substance.

Dr TP Lahane, Dean of J J Hospital, however, had claimed that Indrani's urine
sample sent to the Hinduja hospital tested positive for psychoactive drugs. Now
talking to dna's Santosh Andhale, Dr Lahane clarifies that Hinduja hospital had
given a preliminary report, while the KFSL report is final. Edited excerpts:

Why was a report sought from both KFSL and the Hinduja hospital?

It is not the first case wherein we sent samples to a private hospital. In
several medico-legal cases, we send the investigation report to the Hinduja
hospital, because its laboratory is now recognised by the National Accreditation
Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL). We get a report faster,
which help us to decide the treatment sooner.

Why were the two reports different?

I agree there were two different reports, but the Hinduja hospital had given a
preliminary report while FSL report was final. The FSL had done the Gas
Chromatography-Mass Spectrometry (GC-MS) test, an analytical method that
combines the features of two techniques to identify substances in a test sample.
Hinduja hospital gave a report based on immunoassay test, a biochemical test
that measures the presence or concentration of a macromolecule in a solution
through the use of an antibody or immunoglobulin. These two are different
methods of investigation. A forensic test, however, is more authentic and
reliable, and we have accepted the FSL findings. We treated Indrani according to
the clinical findings, and she is responding to it.

Did the government or the police department ask for two reports?

No, there is no interference in the medical treatment or decisions. Whatever
happens in such a medico-legal case, we always keep the authorities informed.
There is no communication gap.

What is the standard protocol applied in medico-legal cases?

Once a medico-legal case related patient is brought to the hospital, the samples
are sent to the police station concerned and then to the FSL. At the same time,
if a clinician feels that a report is needed immediate, the sample is also sent
to a private laboratory.

Has any body from family contacted you to enquire about Indrani's health?

No. No family member has approached me to enquire about her health.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2015 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


