                              428 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                 Melton Leader

                            November 3, 2015 Tuesday
                                 Melton Edition

Beacon of justice

BYLINE: Grant McArthur and Brigid O'Connell

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 477  words


Families seek legal advice as board is sacked, Grant McArthur and Brigid
O'Connell report A FORTNIGHT before she died in May, Lynne Nagy's biggest wish
was to stop the doctor she held responsible for her dire situation - Dr Surinder
Parhar.

After a legal battle, the mum, 63, had just reached an out-of-court agreement
with Djerriwarrh Health Services over the care, or alleged lack of, she received
from its director of obstetrics.

When she died on Mother's Day, Mrs Nagy remained unaware- secret investigations
were just starting to lift the lid on a cluster of baby deaths in Dr Parhar's
maternity- unit at Bacchus Marsh and Melton Regional Hospital, or just how many
others had also suffered.

"I'd love to see him come back here with everything else he has done with these
babies," Mrs Nagy's devastated widower Ray Nagy (pictured) said this week.

"She wanted him struck off. She wasn't worried about anything else, she just
didn't want him to be able to treat anyone else.

"When it was settled I went back to the hospital and all Lynne asked was, 'Is he
struck off?' "That was all she wanted, she just wanted him to not be able to do
this to anyone else.

"To this day I still don't know how I got her - she is just way above my league
and that is why this is so hard." Suffering bleeding in 2010, Mrs Nagy's GP
referred her to Bacchus Marsh hospital to see a specialist for a hysterectomy
after tests showed things weren't right.

In the 18-month treatment she received from Dr Parhar that followed, Mrs Nagy
didn't receive the hysterectomy that might have saved her, nor did the
specialist ever diagnose the endometrial cancer that was killing her.

By the time another specialist realised what was behind her constant bleeding,
the cancer was a stage three disease and little could be done.

While she focused her attention- on trying to beat the disease, Mrs Nagy also
began legal action against Dr Parhar's hospital.

When the Sunday Herald Sun revealed Dr Parhar had handed in his medical
registration after being at the centre of a scandal over seven avoidable infant
deaths at the hospital, Mr Nagy was further devastated, though not surprised.

The Nagy family is not alone in seeking legal action.

Maurice Blackburn principal in medical negligence Dimitra Dubrow said the firm
had received 50 calls from people regarding the hospital investigation-. Slater
and Gordon principal lawyer Anne Shortall said they had also received numerous
calls.

Both firms said they were seeking compensation for pain, suffering and damages,
but ultimately clients wanted to see the hospital and staff held accountable.

"These people are traumatised and they want radical changes made at the hospital
so this won't happen to anyone else," Ms Shortall said.Complaints about
treatment received at the hospital can be lodged with the Office of the Health
Services Commissioner on 1300 582 113.

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: Melton Leader


                   Copyright 2015 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


