                              426 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                                 standard.co.uk

                      October 30, 2015 Friday 7:08 AM GMT

Peckham man in critical condition in hospital after taking legal high 'Spice'

BYLINE: HANNAH AL-OTHMAN

SECTION: CRIME

LENGTH: 288 words


A man is fighting for his life in hospital after taking the synthetic cannabis
drug 'Spice'.

He was taken to hospital just before 7pm on Thursday, October 29, where he is
receiving medical treatment, and is said to bein a critical but stable
condition.

Officers are now warning anyone who has taken the drug to seek medical
attention, and police are urging anyone

who may have been offered the drug to come forward.

Two other men who are

believed to have ingested the drug have also been taken to hospital.

Police were called at around 9.40pmon the same day,after receiving reports thata
man washaving a 'fit' in Staffordshire Street, Peckham.

The man, whois in his late 20s,told officers that he had taken the legal high
after being offered it for free on the street.

Read more

Laughing gas canisters seized in Shoreditch as proposed 'legal highs'

Networking group aims to help women reach legal high in City

Music festival-goers urged to steer clear of legal highs after death

Legal highs deaths 'over-reported'

EXCLUSIVE: Legal highs 'more dangerous' than class A drugs like

He was taken by

the London Ambulance Service (LAS) to a south London hospital.

Around tenminutes laterpolice were called to Peckham High Street, where a second
man was showing signs of similar symptoms.

The man, whois believed to have also taken the drugwas taken by the LAS to a
south London hospital, and later discharged himself.

Anyone with information regarding the supply of 'Spice' is asked to contact
police via 101 or Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBES


                    Copyright 2015 Evening Standard Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


