                              425 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                     News-Journal (Daytona Beach, Florida)

                            April 6, 2011 Wednesday
                               N-j Final Edition

Lawyer: Merger damages may cost millions

BYLINE: ANNE GEGGIS, ANNE GEGGIS - STAFF WRITER

SECTION: SECTION A; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 799  words

DATELINE: NEW SMYRNA BEACH


NEW SMYRNA BEACH -- Damages from legal advice that led to Sunshine Law
violations and the breakup of the merger between Bert Fish Medical Center and
Adventist Health System could reach into the tens of millions of dollars, an
attorney said Tuesday night.

The toll from the voided merger continued to be added up Tuesday as the
Southeast Volusia Hospital District board took its first formal steps to take
back the New Smyrna Beach hospital it last controlled June 29.

At one point in the meeting, the board interviewed representatives of four law
firms and a mediator as it explores the possibility of recovering damages caused
by the merger, as legal bills continue to mount.

The merger last year prompted a lawsuit from the Bert Fish Foundation, a
philanthropic organization that had given the hospital to the public hospital
district in 1966. The foundation sued after the merger, arguing the 21 board
meetings over 16 months that led to it were closed to the public in violation of
the state's Sunshine Law.

After a four-day trial, Circuit Judge Richard Graham ruled Feb. 24 the
violations couldn't be overcome in a subsequent do-over of the merger.

He ordered a plan be drawn up for how the hospital would be returned to public
control, overseen by the Southeast Volusia Hospital District board as it was
before the merger.

The board's longtime attorney, Jim Heekin, admitted in court during the trial
that the district had a potential malpractice claim against him for wrongly
advising board members to close the merger talks to the public.

So far, the district's legal bills are projected to reach more than $1 million
because of the court case.

The district also should expect to pay more legal bills from plaintiff Bert Fish
Foundation's legal costs, board members have been advised.

And then there's the amount that Bert Fish might be out from what it was going
to receive from Adventist Health.

The health care giant had agreed to back more than $80 million in capital and
investment costs if hospital operations didn't produce that money.

They might not be able to get that amount next time" the hospital looks for a
partner, said Bill Chanfrau Jr., representing the Daytona Beach firm, Chanfrau &
Chanfrau, one of the firms offering to represent the district to recover
damages.

The district board is subject to the Sunshine Law because it levies the taxes
that support indigent care at Bert Fish Medical Center on property owners in
Edgewater, New Smyrna Beach, Oak Hill and a portion of Port Orange.

Members are appointed by the governor.

The June 30 merger also made the seven appointees of the Southeast Volusia
Hospital District members of the private hospital board alongside Adventist
Health executives.

On Tuesday, in the first direct action concerning the hospital's court-ordered
separation from the nonprofit health care giant, the board unanimously agreed
with its attorney's advice Tuesday that he compose letters for each of them
resigning from the private hospital board.

We need to be as clean as a whistle here," said Darryl Bloodworth, an Orlando
attorney.

I do believe it would be best if you resign from the (private) hospital board.
It would avoid any appearance of impropriety."

There was no discussion as the board unanimously agreed the resignation letters
should be drawn up.

As management from Adventist Health exits from the 112-bed hospital, the
separating partners will have to settle a number of outstanding issues.

To do that, the board agreed to offer a contract to Community Health Corp., a
Plano, Texas-based nonprofit, to act as a consultant on its behalf.

Among the eight proposals board received from hospital management consultants,
Community Health was the only nonprofit and the least expensive of the
consulting services comprised of more than just one person.

The company estimated its services would cost the district $400,000, compared
with the top estimate of $1.25 million from Quantum Health Resources, a
Houston-based company.

Neither price includes the cost of a chief executive officer, who may not be
needed.

The board unanimously directed Bloodworth to begin negotiations with Community
Health and line up American Healthcare Solutions as a possible back-up.

The Pittsburgh-based management company estimated its services would cost the
district $975,000, the second-lowest estimate among the consultants with more
than one person.

Consensus emerged quickly Tuesday night to select Community Health.

They seem to have the knowledge we need and they are not for profit," district
board member Tom DeSimone of New Smyrna Beach said.

We need a company, not one man," said the Rev. John Marsh, an Edgewater board
member.

The board likely will choose a legal firm or mediator at its 5 p.m. meeting
Thursday at New Smyrna Beach Regional Library, 1001 S. Dixie Freeway.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DBNJ

                Copyright 2011 ProQuest Information and Learning
                              All Rights Reserved
                               ProQuest SuperText
                    Copyright 2011 News-Journal Corporation


