                              436 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                           January 16, 2016 Saturday

Hospital of New Jersey tax exemption bill could face legal challenges

LENGTH: 826  words


Not-for-profit hospitals in New Jersey are anxiously waiting to see whether New
Jersey Gov. Chris Christie signs a bill that would solidify their exemptions
from state property taxes, amid increasing scrutiny of such perks.

But a state law likely won't end court battles on the issue in the Garden State
or elsewhere, some say. An Illinois appeals court recently ruled
unconstitutional that state's law defining what not-for-profit hospitals must do
to get tax breaks, leaving some wondering whether the New Jersey bill could also
face constitutional challenges.

The New Jersey bill would allow not-for-profit hospitals in the state to keep
their property tax exemptions as long as they pay their municipalities $2.50 a
day for each hospital bed and $250 a day for satellite emergency-care
facilities. Those fees would increase 2% each year to account for inflation. The
New Jersey Office of Legislative Services has estimated the law would raise $21
million for municipalities in its first year.

The bill was drafted after a state tax court in June decided to yank Morristown
(N.J.) Medical Center's property tax exemption, saying it operated, in many
ways, like a for-profit business. The hospital, owned by Atlantic Health System,
ultimately settled with its municipality for $26 million, but the judge's
decision made other New Jersey not-for-profit hospitals nervous.

Since that Morristown decision, at least 22 of the state's not-for-profit
hospitals have heard from their municipalities about the issue, said Betsy Ryan,
New Jersey Hospital Association CEO.

The bill now on Christie's desk tries to ensure that not-for-profit hospitals
can keep their exemptions while still contributing financially to their
municipalities.

"We think rather than have a piecemeal approach, where one town does one thing
and another town does another, a statewide solution to bring certainty is the
best course, Ryan said.

The Illinois law that was recently ruled unconstitutional was also aimed at
providing certainty for hospitals.

There are, however, some major differences between the Illinois law and the New
Jersey bill. The Illinois law doesn't require not-for-profit hospitals to pay
fees to municipalities. Rather, it says that the value of certain charitable and
other services offered by a hospital must exceed the estimated value of its
property tax liability if it is to get property and sales tax exemptions.

Also, the Illinois appeals court that ruled on the law last week reasoned that
it was unconstitutional because the Illinois Constitution allows lawmakers to
exempt only property used exclusively for charitable purposes. It's likely the
Illinois Supreme Court will ultimately decide the matter.

New Jersey hospitals, however, probably wouldn't have to worry about a ruling
like the one in Illinois should the New Jersey bill become law, Ryan said.

That's because New Jersey's Constitution doesn't require that property only be
exempted if it's used exclusively for charitable purposes, like Illinois' does.

Karen Ali, general counsel of the New Jersey Hospital Association, noted that
the New Jersey Constitution already allows exemptions for buildings used for
hospital purposes.

But Michael Darcy, executive director of the New Jersey State League of
Municipalities, which opposes the bill, said the state Constitution prohibits
lawmakers from passing special laws unfairly singling out certain entities for
tax exemptions.

If these businesses are being run, as the tax court said, in a manner that is
indistinguishable from a for-profit business, why are they being selected to get
this special treatment? Darcy said. The Constitution is designed so that, in
laymen's terms, there's a fairness to the taxes. You cannot give tax advantages
to one business over another.

But an analysis provided to the New Jersey Hospital Association by outside legal
counsel found that the bill would not violate that part of the state
Constitution.

That analysis notes that the bill would not be considered special legislation
because its exclusion of for-profit hospitals is reasonable. For-profit
hospitals, the analysis says, do not naturally belong with not-for-profit ones.

Don Stuart, a partner at Nashville law firm Waller Lansden Dortch & Davis, said
continued legal challenges to hospital exemptions in New Jersey are certainly
possible, even if the bill passes.

Particularly to a law that was perhaps quickly pulled together, and certainly in
light of what happened in Illinois, Stuart said.

Danny Chun, Illinois Health and Hospital Association spokesman, pointed out that
states have many approaches on hospital tax exemptions.

"There's no one size fits all," Chun said.

Christie, a Republican candidate for president, has until Tuesday to sign the
bill, if he doesn't sign it by then it will be considered vetoed. If that
happens, the bill's proponents may try to re-craft or tweak it this legislative
session to gain approval, Ryan said. 2016 Legal Monitor Worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2016 Legal Monitor Worldwide
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


