                              439 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Hindu

                           December 31, 2015 Thursday

Crisis centre for victims of rape, domestic violence

LENGTH: 435  words

DATELINE: Mysuru


Mysuru, Dec. 31 -- In a bid to help victims of rape and domestic violence, the
Department of Women and Child Welfare Development, in association with K.R.
Hospital and SyndicateBank, will soon set up a full-fledged one-stop centre at
the hospital.


 One such centre has already been functioning at Cheluvamba Hospital since
November, 2014 but owing to limited space, the centre is unable to provide all
facilities under one roof.
 The special ward at K.R. Hospital is being revamped by the district Nirmithi
Kendra. Works have almost been completed and the centre may be inaugurated in
three to four days time. Soon after the formal inauguration of the centre here,
the one at Cheluvamba Hospital will be closed.
 At the new centre, victims can not only walk in and get medical examination and
counselling, but also register police complaints and seek legal aid. The
authorities have decided to provide facilities such as medical examination,
collection of forensic evidence, and registration of FIR by the police at the
centre. Victims can also seek psychosocial counselling. Further, if need be, the
hospital will help find a shelter home for victims if they have problems in
returning to their family.
 "The idea is to provide all facilities under one roof to encourage more women
to report crimes of sexual assault and domestic violence," said Radha, Deputy
Director of Women and Child Welfare Development Department. She said that the
centre will have four professionals - doctor, lawyer, police official and
counsellor (all women).
 The Police Department, District Legal Services Authority and the hospital
authorities have agreed to extend their complete support for effective
functioning of the centre at the behest of the Deputy Commissioner, Ms. Radha
said. The hospital authorities have agreed to assign a staff nurse round the
clock, while the police have consented to post a head constable on shift basis.
A separate room has been provided for recording statements and registering
complaints. SyndicateBank has provided Rs. 7.5 lakh under the CSR fund for the
centre.
 Facilities at the centre in K.R. Hospital
 Victims can undergo medical examination
 They can register police complaint and seek legal aid
 They can seek psychosocial counselling
 Centre will collect forensic evidence
 Hospital will help find shelter home for victims if they have problems in
returning to their family
 Centre will have a doctor, lawyer, police official, and counsellor (all women)
 Staff nurse will be assigned round the clock
 Head constable will be posted on shift basis
 Separate room will be available to record statements

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2015 FFC Information Solution
                              All Rights Reserved


