                              432 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                           January 18, 2017 Wednesday

Elderly 'left in hospital to protect family inheritance'

BYLINE: Paul Cullen

SECTION: FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 428 words


Families are leaving elderly relatives in hospital beds rather than sending them
to a nursing home in order to protect their inheritance, the HSE's senior legal
adviser has claimed.

In some cases, according to HSE head of legal services Eunice O'Raw, the wider
family wants to avoid having the patient's assets used to fund a nursing home
place through the Fair Deal scheme.

In addition, many farming families keep relatives in hospital in order to avoid
financial penalties, she told HSE director general Tony O'Brien in an email last
May.

Farming families incur penalties in the next generation if the farm has not been
managed by that generation for more than two years. "Keeping the first
generation in a hospital bed away from the farm avoids these penalties," she
said.

Trespassing

In a separate email, Ms O'Raw referred to a woman in her 40s who has stayed in a
private hospital bed in the public system for the past four years without
paying. The woman no longer needed hospital services, she said.

Last November, the HSE was criticised after the leaking of a memo by Ms O'Raw
advising staff how to remove "trespassing" patients who refuse to give up their
beds.

The memo, which suggested nurses use "minimum force" to remove such patients,
was withdrawn after being heavily criticised by Minister for Health Simon
Harris, among others.

Mr O'Brien apologised for any concern caused, but insisted the legal advice the
memo contained did not reflect general policy.

At the time, Mr O'Brien said it was "very rare" for patients to refuse to move
out of a hospital bed.

Legal opinion

However, according to new documents sought under Freedom of Information
following the November controversy, Ms O'Raw said she had received "very many
queries" from hospitals on dealing with such issues.

In the midlands, she noted, the HSE makes a significant number of applications
for wardship for patients who are in beds they no longer require. "The same
pattern is not evident to the same extent elsewhere."

The legal opinion obtained by the HSE was that those who refuse to leave
hospital beds they no longer need "are committing a trespass and steps may be
taken to have them moved on".

Ms O'Raw also invoked article 40.3.2 of the Constitution, saying there was a
potential conflict between a well patient occupying a bed and the constitutional
right to life of another patient. "If there is a conflict between the medical
needs of other patients that are identifiable as urgent, the overstaying patient
would have to be moved to vindicate the rights of the acutely ill person."

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2017 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


