                              46 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                   Kansas City Daily Record (Kansas City, MO)

                           September 11, 2006 Monday

Suit against firm centers on conflict of interest

BYLINE: Donna Walter

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 815  words


The St. Louis law firm of Sandberg, Phoenix & von Gontard says it will fight
allegations of fraud and legal malpractice filed by a doctor the law firm
represented 10 years ago.

The lawsuit alleges the firm had a conflict of interest it failed to disclose to
the doctor.

"The allegations in this amended petition are completely scandalous without
basis in fact and outrageous," said attorney Gerard T. Noce, a partner with
Burroughs, Hepler, Broom, MacDonald, Hebrank & True, who is representing
Sandberg, Phoenix & von Gontard.

Last summer, Dr. Keshav Joshi filed a legal malpractice claim against the SPvG
law firm and Jonathan Ries, the attorney who defended the anesthesiologist in
suspension proceedings brought by St. Luke's Hospital in 1996. Joshi's attorney,
Naren Chaganti, lodged an amended petition with the St. Louis Circuit Court on
Aug. 30.

But the amended petition is not part of the case, Noce said, because the court
hasn't granted the plaintiff leave to amend his petition.

The defense attorney said the amended petition was drafted in response to SPvG's
motion for summary judgment pending before the court. In the motion, filed in
July, Noce argued Joshi's lawsuit was barred by the five-year statute of
limitations for legal malpractice claims.

Rejecting the notion that the law firm would settle this case, Noce said, "We'll
try the case because (1) it should be barred by statute of limitations, and (2)
the facts of the case will support that our representation was not only
reasonable; it was outstanding. "

Chaganti asserts in the amended petition that SPvG "compromised plaintiff's
interests in favor of St. Luke's Hospital's interests in order to ingratiate
themselves to St. Luke's Hospital with the view to obtain future work from St.
Luke's Hospital. "

The law firm failed to disclose to Joshi that it represented two other hospitals
that were part of the Unity Health System, as was St. Luke's Hospital, and it
was marketing its services to St. Luke's Hospital, according to the amended
petition.

The claim against SpvG alleges internal memos support the allegation that the
law firm hid from Joshi a potential conflict of interest. In addition, the
plaintiff's lawyer alleged these memos were produced by SPvG during discovery
for the legal malpractice suit, and Joshi could not have known of the law firm's
alleged conflict of interest before production of the memos.

A Jan. 22, 1996, memo sent from Ries to the law firm's client committee states
he conferred with "KWB, PvG and KLP" - which match the initials for Kenneth W.
Bean, Peter von Gontard and Kathleen L. Pine - and they determined there was no
conflict of interest caused by SPvG's "client development initiatives" with the
Unity group. A computer check turned up "very dated matters" in which the firm
represented St. Luke's Hospital and another Unity hospital. Those matters "did
not really come close to rising to the level of a conflict situation," Ries
wrote in the memo.

Two days later, Bean sent Ries a memo discussing turmoil among the
anesthesiologists at St. Luke's Hospital. Bean said he represented Western
Anesthesiology Associates, which ran the anesthesiology department at a Unity
hospital. Bean ended the memo by saying he wasn't sure how the Ries'
representation of Joshi would impact Western Anesthesiology Associates, so he
wasn't sure he wanted Ries to tell him about the Western representation.

After Joshi's preliminary hearing in front of three St. Luke's doctors, Joshi
resigned from St. Luke's Hospital, stating in a letter he was doing so "in order
to proceed with a program of employment and professional development at the
University of Missouri. " The full hearing was canceled because Joshi's
resignation eliminated the need for it.

Joshi's lawsuit against SPvG alleges Ries and the hospital secretly agreed to
waive the full hearing with the knowledge that the waiver and Joshi's
resignation from the hospital would prevent Joshi from successfully suing the
hospital.

A memo Ries wrote for the case file on May 17, 1996, shows the hospital "lobbied
and negotiated" for a resolution that included Joshi's voluntary retirement. The
file memo shows Ries and Richard A. Wunderlich, the hospital's attorney, agreed
Joshi's voluntary resignation would "moot any need" for the full hearing. But
the memo also shows Ries objected to the hospital's request that Joshi fully
release the hospital from any claims.

If Joshi's lawsuit survives the law firm's motion for summary judgment, the
burden will be on him to show there was a substantial relationship between
SPvG's earlier representation of the hospital and its representation of Joshi,
according to Washington University law professor Peter Joy, who is known as an
expert in legal ethics.

"Coincidence alone isn't enough," he said.

This article was originally published in the St. Louis Daily Record, another
Dolan Media publication.

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

