                              440 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                      The Atlanta Journal and Constitution

                             March 11, 1991, Monday

Building a solid foundation; Lawyer-turned-fund-raiser seeks support for
hospitals

BYLINE: By Robert J. Vickers Staff writerhospitals; administration; benefits;
finances; profiles; gwinnett/county

SECTION: EXTRA; SECTION J; PAGE 07

LENGTH: 589 words


John O. "Jack" Moore, who set out to be a lawyer, even practiced for seven years
after earning his law degree and arriving in Atlanta in 1979.

But a funny thing steered the career of the 37-year-old Easley, S.C., native
away from the courtroom debates of the legal world.

During his legal studies at the University of Virginia, Mr. Moore enjoyed
raising money for the school so much that in 1986 he switched jobs to raise
funds for Emory University's Health Finances division.

"I wanted to do something on the collegiate level," he said. "That's how I ended
up at Emory and getting into the health field."

That background made him well-suited to assume the role of director of
development for the Gwinnett Hospital System Foundation - the private,
non-profit fund-raising organ of the county's public hospital system.

"Originally Howard Fowler was brought in to be the legal counsel for the
hospital authority and director of the foundation," Mr. Moore said. "But it's
more like a full-time job. That's why I was brought in to take over."

Although the foundation, headed by Mr. Fowler and former hospital authority
chairwoman Jeanine Gullett, is still in its planning phase, two projects have
already been taking up most of Mr. Moore's time.

The third annual Spring for Life Road Race, co-sponsored by the foundation and
Primerica Financial Services in Duluth, is set for May 18. Mr. Moore is
soliciting participation and corporate sponsorship for the race, which raises
funds for the three county hospitals' neonatal intensive care units.

Mr. Moore's other time-consuming task is organizing the Gwinnett Hospital System
Foundation Council, a 30-member group of hospital officials and county residents
set up to advise the hospital authority and help solicit financial support.

"It's a cross-section of professionals, community leaders, business leaders and
educators," he said. "They are leaders who know about the community, and we want
input from them on the future health-care needs of the county."

Each council member will spend two days a year at one of the system's hospitals
to learn what it's doing. The members will be charged with increasing the
system's ties to the community and seeking out financial support, he said.

"In a job like this, when you're dealing with the public and volunteers, there
are a lot of evening meetings," he said of his schedule. "Any time you work with
volunteers, you have to work around their hours, because they have to be out
making a living."

With those two projects, the foundation, created about two years ago, soon hopes
to take its first definitive steps toward securing additional funding for the
hospital system. When discussing the need for more money, authority members
point to a $ 500,000 reduction in the allotment the system received from the
County Commission this year.

"The first half of the year is going to be spent looking at things we want to
get involved in," he said. "I'm looking to come out of the starting blocks in
the summer."

That's when the foundation may tackle other potential fund-raisers, like a gala
ball, he said. But the most important thing he can do for the foundation now is
win the trust of the people of Gwinnett County.

"When you first come in with something like this, you have to build
relationships with people," Mr. Moore said. "People need to realize that there
is a reason to contribute to an organization, and it's up to us to convince
people that we're worthy of their support."

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: color photo: John O. "Jack" Moore, director of development for the
Gwinnett Hospital System Foundation, discusses plans with the foundation's
Jeanine Gullett. / Charlotte B. Teagle / Staff

                    Copyright 1991 The Atlanta Constitution


