                              441 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                                 The Irish News

                            March 15, 2014 Saturday

Medic suing hospital

BYLINE: Claire Simpson, c.simpson@irishnews.com

SECTION: Pg. 18

LENGTH: 269 words


A senior consultant is suing the Royal Victoria Hospital Belfast for negligence,
claiming the hospital is depriving patients "their basic human rights".

A patient is also suing the trust which runs the hospital.

High-profile Belfast legal firm Madden & Finucane Solicitors said the doctor and
patient had instructed them to bring legal proceedings.

Solicitor Patrick Madden said the action was linked to "negligence at the
hospital and a systemic failure which has led to patients suffering avoidable
harm and deprivation of their basic human rights".

Mr Madden said evidence of "appalling standards of care and neglect of patients"
had been disclosed to the firm.

He claimed the evidence showed that there was a "toxic" environment in the Royal
for staff and patients.

"The hospital has failed in its basic duty of care," he said.

"Given the extent of the failures within this department, we consider that a
full Public Inquiry is of urgent public importance."

In a statement the Belfast trust said: "We await correspondence from Madden and
Finucane and will deal with any legal proceedings appropriately. At this time we
are not in a position to comment further.

"The trust is currently participating in an RQAI review of emergency and
unscheduled care."

The legal action comes after an elderly woman died on a trolley in the Royal's
accident and emergency department last month.

There is concern that delays in treating the woman may have contributed to her
death.

The Belfast health trust said in February it is investigating the deaths of five
other people at the hospital amid concerns they were not treated quickly enough.

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2014 The Irish News Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


