                              438 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                             Paisley Daily Express

                           November 19, 2013 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Legal action launched after asbestos scare;
Health chiefs taken by surprise at news ; CRISIS ; Ron Moore

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 365 words


Health bosses are facing legal action after potentially lethal absestos was
found at a Paisley hospital.

The Health and Safety Executive HSE is preparing a report for Crown Office
bosses, following the discovery of the deadly substance at Dykebar Hospital in
the town's Grahamston Road.

The Express revealed last year that frail pensioners faced an agonising wait for
more than a week before they could be moved out of harm's way to another site.

The hospital was plunged into the crisis after the asbestos was discovered in a
roof space above two wards during refurbishment work.

However, according health bosses, none of the patients or staff at Dykebar had
come into contact with the toxic substance, and there was never any danger to
visitors.

Hospital management said the area was not a place where people could have come
into contact with the asbestos.

And the legal complaint has taken NHS Greater Glasgow and Clyde by surprise as
they were initially told that the HSE would be taking no further action.

An HSE spokeswoman said: "The investigation at Dykebar has concluded and a
report is being prepared for consideration by COPFS."

NHS Greater Glasgow and Clyde said: "Whilst NHSGGC is facing legal action
regarding asbestos in one room, a plant room at the Southern General Hospital
site, the Health and Safety Executive have advised that no action will be taken
against NHSGGC following their investigations into asbestos at the three other
sites.

"We proactively reported to the HSE the presence of asbestos when it was
identified at Clydebank Health Centre, Dykebar Hospital and the Skylark Centre
at Inverclyde Royal Hospital.

"We received verbal feedback from the Health and Safety Executive that, as far
as the Dykebar site was concerned, they were taking no further action against
NHS Greater Glasgow and Clyde but we will seek to clarify this with the HSE next
week."

Health bosses added they supported the appointment of an asbestos manager and
they fully abide with the law governing asbestos surveillance, management and
disposal Wards One and Five, providing Older People's Mental Health Services,
were affected by the asbestos scare at Dykebar which happened in August last
year.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Potentially lethal Asbestos was found at Dykebar Hospital last year

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PDE


                           Copyright 2013 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


