                              433 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                Hull Daily Mail

                           September 11, 2006 Monday

MP's legal fight to save hospital

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 403 words


Patients are being urged to join a legal challenge to save facilities at an East
Riding hospital.

Beverley and Holderness MP Graham Stuart is seeking a High Court injunction to
prevent the closure of the inpatient ward at Hornsea Cottage Hospital.

The 12 beds in the ward are used for people recovering from surgery, suffering
from terminal  illnesses or in need of long-term medical care.

But Yorkshire Wolds and Coast Primary Care Trust (PCT) has announced it will
close the ward on October 1. It said the decision was made to protect patients
at a time when staffing levels were low.

It is due to be reviewed in March.

Mr Stuart said: "What we need in order to get funding for our challenge is a
resident who uses the services and is eligible for legal aid.

"Ideally, we want a proven user of Hornsea Cottage Hospital.

"I  would also like to hear from anyone who fears a decision will affect them
personally, so  I can make the best possible case on behalf of everyone who uses
that service."

Mr Stuart said he was making the legal challenge on the basis the public were
not consulted about the move.

Mr Stuart said: "The trust is behaving illegally and illogically."

Pensioner Edward Clark, of Ashcourt Drive, Hornsea, was treated in the inpatient
ward for high blood pressure and heart problems.

He said: "It took me by surprise when I heard they were going to close the ward.
I've had wonderful treatment there. When I was in there last time my neighbour
would visit and bring me my mail in the mornings and tell me the news so I  was
in touch.

"We need to get geared up again now and do something about it. I'm highly
disappointed with the PCT."

East Riding Council's NHS overview and scrutiny committee will be discussing the
decision at its meeting at County Hall, Beverley, tomorrow.

Anyone who would have been admitted to the inpatient ward at Hornsea will
instead have to be treated at home or at another hospital. The trust has
announced it will open three more beds at Withernsea Hospital and the Macmillan
Wolds Unit at Bridlington.

The Mail launched its Hands Off Our Hospitals campaign when the PCT launched a
review of its four community hospitals - in Hornsea, Withernsea, Bridlington and
Driffield - in December 2004.

Any patient who wants to support Mr Stuart's legal challenge should call  his
office on (01482) 679687.

j.howell@hdmp.co.uk

Links

National Health Service

www.nhs.uk

Hornsea Town Council

www.hornsea.gov.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2006 Hull Daily Mail
                              All Rights Reserved


