                              448 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                                  The National

                              June 3, 2013 Monday

Families accuse Sharjah hospital of negligence. Medics face probes into deaths
of five patients this year

BYLINE: Yasin Kakande

LENGTH: 304  words


Hospital staff attended a workshop entitled "The legal responsibilities of
medical practitioners".

SHARJAH // The families of five patients who died this year at Al Qassimi
hospital have filed cases with the medical authorities claiming negligence.
»In all cases the patient died but it´s the work of higher medical authorities
or the courts to say there was a medical error committed or not,« said Dr Arif
Al Noryani, the hospital´s chief executive. ¬ The five cases - involving the
maternity, cardiology and paediatrics departments - are being investigated by
the Higher Medical Responsibility Committee.

¬ Dr Al Noryani said the Ministry of Health followed up on every case filed with
the committee. ¬ If medical staff were found guilty of a medical error, they
would face appropriate punishments, he added, which could involve the criminal
courts. ¬ »The punishment could be as harsh as a jail term,« he said. »One of
the staff nurses was recently sentenced to six months in prison for medical
negligence.« ¬ Dr Al Noryani was speaking at a legal workshop for 75 hospital
staff, held in conjunction with Sharjah courts and the Ministry of Justice to
create a better understanding of the law. ¬ Mohammed Saeed Al Muhairi, a senior
legal adviser with the ministry, discussed the legal responsibilities and rights
of medical practitioners. ¬ »There is always a need to nurture a culture of law
among medical personnel and create awareness about the main medical errors,« he
said. ¬ The session was informative and all the staff benefited, said Sheikh
Mohammed bin Saqr Al Qassimi, the assistant undersecretary at the Ministry of
Health and director of Sharjah Health Zone. »We shall have more similar
workshops here and in other hospitals to create legal awareness among doctors,
as this is very important.«ykakande@thenational.ae

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 818


                     Copyright 2013 Abu Dhabi Media Company
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


