                              443 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                              Sunday Business Post

                                 April 6, 2014

Mater consultants can work privately

SECTION: HOME

LENGTH: 305 words


Twelve hospital consultants at the Mater Hospital in Dublin have been allowed to
work in the private hospital, in an apparent breach of the terms of the
consultants' contract.

The contract is at the centre of a major dispute between St Vincent's Hospital
Group and the HSE, with St Vincent's expected to initiate legal action in a bid
to ensure some 80 consultants with public contracts can continue to work in the
private hospital.

Twelve hospital consultants have been given letters of comfort' by hospital
management at the Mater. These letters allow the consultants to work in the
Mater Private Hospital, which is located close by, but under separate ownership.

The Sunday Business Post understands that one health insurer threatened to stop
paying these consultants private fees. The insurer withdrew the threat, after a
consultant initiated legal proceedings.

The Mater did not respond to questions posed by this newspaper.

The HSE has threatened to impose financial sanctions on St Vincent's Hospital
over the hospital's failure to stop 80 consultants with public contracts from
working in the private hospital.

However, SVHG said it had received legal advice advising it that, as the private
hospital is co-located with the public hospital and under the same ownership, it
is in a unique position whereby its consultants can work across both hospitals
on the same campus.

The HSE has dismissed this. Speaking on RTE, its chief executive Tony O'Brien
said the taxpayer was paying the salaries of a large number of consultants on
the understanding that they would be doing all of their work in St Vincent's
University (public) hospital.

O'Brien said the private hospital was ''effectively being run on the back of the
public hospital through consultants whose salaries are paid by the taxpayer. He
described this as ''inappropriate.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2014 Post Publications Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


