                              447 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            January 19, 1998, Monday

MEDICS CAUGHT LAWYER 'TOUTING' IN ARMY HOSPITAL;
 SOLICITOR CAUGHT TOUTING FOR BUSINESS IN ARMY HOSPITAL

BYLINE: Nicola Tallant

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 395 words


DEFENCE chief Michael Smith has revealed that a solicitor was caught touting for
business in an army hospital.

The disclosure comes as the government fights compensation claims running into
millions from service personnel.

The Minister said the lawyer was run off the ward by an army medic but went on
to accuse "scavaging solicitors" of encouraging servicemen to sue for anything
from sunburn to hearing loss.

He called the compensation claims "a lucrative goldmine" which is currently cost
the taxpayer pounds 85million and could eventually escalate to pounds
200million.

Six hundred new claims are piling in every month.

Mr Smith said: "The soldiers see this as a lucrative goldmine regardless of the
consequences caused to the taxpayers.

"But it is important to understand why."

He said the solicitor caught at the hospital "was going from bed to bed trying
to find new clients".

The Minister added: "I have the greatest respect for the legal profession but a
minority of solicitors are scavaging sick beds advising soldiers to sue."

There are between 150,000 and 160,000 potential claimants both serving and
retired.

The Minister vowed to fight forthcoming civil suits in an effort to alleviate
the massive legal and pay-out costs.

He said: "I have an enormous task to halt this avalanche.

"We already have to deal with astronomical legal costs for the present claims
with pounds 85million cited as the figure for current cases.

"At the end of the year we'll be looking at pounds 200milion for the legal
services alone.

"There are levels for genuine cases. But we will be fighting the more minor
hurts."

The Minister is to set up an army compensation board to deal with the crisis.

It would sit five days a week and be staffed by legal, medical and civil
experts.

The Minister also intends to fight more cases through the courts.

The Department has been contesting only one in 10 cases because out-of- court
settlements would be less expensive.

The estimated total cost of settling the existing 11,500 claims would be pounds
500million of which pounds 200million would be soaked up in legal and
administrative costs.

The average pounds 40,000 paid out in settlements consists of pounds 25,000
compensation, pounds 9,000 for the plaintiff's legal fees and pounds 6,000 for
the State's costs.

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PLEDGE: Michael Smith

                            Copyright 1998 MGN Ltd.


