                              451 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 14, 1991, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Harlem Groups Try to Stop St. Luke's Growth

BYLINE: By E. R. SHIPP

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 27; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 581 words


A coalition of legal-rights organizations has asked the Federal Government to
block a $500 million renovation of St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center and to
stop the center from reducing services relied on by the poor at its Morningside
Heights campus.

The coalition has said the center is discriminating against black and Hispanic
patients and people without health insurance and ignoring its community-service
obligations under Federal law.

The medical center has replied that it needs to consolidate its birth and
newborn care wards at one of its two hospitals in order to save money. It said
it plans to improve care for expectant mothers at St. Luke's uptown, but have
them deliver at Roosevelt, in midtown. It denied that it was discriminating
against any patients.

Cut Back 291 Beds

Renovation plans call for St. Luke's to reduce its beds to 489 from 780. The
hospital, on Amsterdam Avenue at 114th Street, serves Morningside Heights,
Manhattan Valley, and Central and West Harlem, parts of which have been
classified by state and Federal health agencies as "medically underserved."
Infant mortality in Harlem is high and a 1990 state health review found prenatal
care to be the worst in the city.

While many local residents are against losing any beds, the plans to shift
obstetrics, pediatrics and neonatal intensive care have become the focus of much
of the anger.

The first modernization plan would have eliminated all 121 of those beds at St.
Luke's and put them in a new 137-bed center at Roosevelt Hospital, which is 55
blocks away, on Ninth Avenue at 59th Street.

But after neighborhood protests, the medical center said it would keep 22
obstetric and 14 neonatal intensive care beds in the modernized St. Luke's, if
it could find the money.

Local opponents -- and their lawyers from the N.A.A.C.P. Legal Defense and
Educational Fund, the Legal Aid Society and the Puerto Rican Legal Defense and
Education Fund -- say that is not enough.

Other Hospitals Closed

They argue that St. Luke's is abandoning the area after a long tradition of
serving the poor and they point out that half a dozen upper Manhattan hospitals
have closed in the last 20 years.

In an administrative complaint sent to the Department of Health and Human
Services this month, the coalition said the hospital wants to attract more
"white, privately-insured, generally-healthy residents."

A hospital spokeswoman, Michele DeMilly, said the hospital "will never
discriminate in the provision of health care services."

She acknowledged that the $20 million for a new St. Luke's obstetric and
neonatal intensive-care center is not available now.

That made Marianne Engelman Lado, an N.A.A.C.P. fund lawyer, call St. Luke's
offer to keep beds for mothers and infants "an empty promise."

St. Luke's and Roosevelt were merged in 1979 and serve the West Side from 34th
Street to 142d Street. Since Roosevelt was centrally located, Ms. DeMilly said,
maternity and pediatric services were kept there in the consolidation plan.

At St. Luke's, she said, "the notion is to provide prenatal care so we can get
these women to register and ultimately to deliver healthy babies" at Roosevelt.

But the legal-rights organizations contend in their complaint that "poor
patients are the least likely to migrate out of their neighborhood for obstetric
services."

The Department of Health and Human Services' Office of Civil Rights is not
expected to reach a decision for several months.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company


