                              449 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                           August 27, 2014 Wednesday

Judicial Ruling on East Bay Hospital's Closure Complicated by Patient's Death

LENGTH: 370  words


A U.S. District Court judge tomorrow will hear new evidence on the potential
closure of the emergency department at Doctors Medical Center in San Pablo.
Earlier this month the cash-strapped hospital began ambulance diversions,
turning people away from the emergency department because of staffing shortages.


Last week a man died after being diverted to Alta Bates, a 25-minute ambulance
ride from Doctors Medical Center.
Federal judge William Orrick on Aug. 11 denied a motion for a restraining order
that would have kept the emergency doors open.
The group of nurses and patients who filed for the restraining order hope the
judge will reconsider, in part because of the patient death, which may have been
influenced by the lengthy diversion.
As all the legal maneuvering is coming to a head this week, there is a
legislative push, as well, to try to keep Doctors Medical Center open.
AB 39 by Assembly member Nancy Skinner (D-Berkeley) asks federal officials to
designate DMC as a public hospital, as a demonstration project. That would buy
the hospital a little time to figure out a viable long-term plan, according to
Skinner.
Another attempt to keep the hospital solvent, a group attempt at financing
involving public health officials, nearby hospital officials affected by the
potential closure and others has hit an impasse, according to Chuck Finnie, vice
president of communications and media at BMWL and Partners, a San Francisco law
firm that brought the lawsuit to keep the emergency department doors open at
Doctors Medical Center.
"We've been in this process with public health officials and the hospital
council for a long time," Finnie said. "What's happened there is the numbers
just aren't penciling out."
If the situation can't be quickly addressed in the courts, or if the Skinner
bill can't turn around the problem immediately, the hospital is on an arc to
shut down all services soon, Finnie said.
"The hospital is on a glide path to the end of October," Finnie said.
The hospital has been capped at 50 beds, rather than its usual 130, Finnie said,
and this week that cap will be lowered to 30 beds. The hospital can't possibly
survive long with that limited income stream, he said.
 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


