                              442 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Bond Buyer

DC Hospital Unit Accuses Counsel Of Overcharging

                             April 13, 1984, Friday

By Gretchen Chell

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 12


The District of Columbia Hospital Association has accused bond counsel of
overcharging legal fees for a $40 milllon dollar proposed hospital equipment
bond issue for area hospitals.

At issue is an agreement made between the District of Columbia government and
five law firms last year; it requires the district to pay legal fees of 1% of
the bond issue, as well as other costs.

Lawyers rendering an opinion that the hospital issue is exempt from federal
income tax stand to receive a $400,000 fee plus $20,000 in preliminary costs if
the fee structure remains unchanged.

The dispute, which has ensued over several months, is stalling work on the bond
issue for area hospitals, Stephen Lipson, executive director of the hospital,
said today.

"Things are being held up until we resolve this," Mr. Lipson said. "That's the
stumbling block." Stephen Kahn, a partner with the law firm Melrod, Redman &
Gartlan, which is acting as bond counsel for the hospital issue, said the law
firm has been negotiating the fee with the hospital association and has no
intention of receiving a 1% fee.

"We're not out to overcharge," Mr. Kahn said. "I recognized the need to adjust
the fee when this [bond] issue was proposed. It was just too high."

When setting the legal fee structure, the District of Columbia presumed most of
the IDB issues would range between $1 million and $10 million -- making a 1% fee
plausible -- and did not envision larger bond issues, Mr. Lipson and Mr. Kahn
said.

Furthermore, Mr. Kahn said the bond issue has been stalled because of the legal
problems over changes in the district's home rule law to make it conform to a
1983 Supreme Court ruling. The home rule problem arose over the summer when the
Supreme Court ruled against the so-called legislative veto.

As an unanticipated side effect, the Supreme Court ruling brought into question
the congressional veto provisions in the district's home rule charter. Until
that matter is resolved, the district cannot issue bonds.

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 339 words

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1984 The Bond Buyer, Inc.


