                              444 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                              July 18, 2014 Friday

Halifax Health's most expensive attorney costs $935 an hour

LENGTH: 615  words


Halifax Health's highest-billing lawyer in its whistleblower lawsuit is making
$935 an hour, and his firm has pulled in more than $17 million so far, according
to information obtained Thursday by The News-Journal through a public records
request. In total, the 678-bed public hospital system has spent $22.8 million on
legal fees fighting the five-year lawsuit accusing the hospital of maintaining
illegal contracts with nine doctors and overcharging Medicare.


An additional $1.5 million has been spent on other legal-related costs, but a
detailed breakdown hasn't been released.
McDermott, Will & Emery LLP, which has been recognized as one of the top health
law firms in the country, served as lead counsel and was paid $17.7 million. The
firm has offices nationwide and is headquartered in Chicago.
"With careful consideration of the potential penalties the hospital could face,
we assembled law firms that had thorough understanding and experience with these
particular highly complex health care laws," said John Guthrie, a hospital
spokesman.
At one time, potential damages in the case were estimated to exceed $1 billion.

The case appears to be drawing to a close, pending final approval from the
federal government. Halifax Health reached two settlements totaling $86 million.
The hospital used 11 attorneys from four law firms, including Ormond Beach-based
Kaney Law.
That firm was paid $41,422. Halifax Health also paid nearly $800,000 to
attorneys representing doctors and employees.
Their most expensive lawyer, Anthony Upshaw, a partner with McDermott, Will &
Emery who makes $935 an hour, earned a "top ten defense verdict related to his
defense of the tobacco industry," according to his online biography. He
represented RJ Reynolds Tobacco Co. in a class-action lawsuit. He also has
defended "pharmaceutical, asbestos and pollution claims."
Another heavy hitter for Halifax Health's defense team included T. Reed
Stephens, who earns $890 an hour and is also a partner in McDermott Will &
Emery.
Stephens is "a nationally recognized expert in the pharmaceutical fraud and
abuse and corporate compliance area."
As a former attorney with the U.S. Department of Justice Civil Division,
Stephens was lead or co-lead counsel in more than 60 investigations - the
majority involving allegations of health care fraud - before switching to the
defense side.
Elin Baklid-Kunz, director of physician services, filed the suit in June 2009.
Before the suit was filed, McDermott Will & Emery issued a legal opinion to
Halifax Health that a "reasonable argument" existed that the contracts in
question could be defended in court, but it could not "provide any assurances" a
judge or the federal government would agree. That opinion contradicted an
earlier internal legal memo written by a hospital lawyer questioning legality of
the contracts.  In March, Halifax Health settled that part of the case for $85
million. Earlier this month, it settled for $1 million the remaining claims
involving allegations the hospital overcharged Medicare, according to court
records.
The case has attracted national attention, and one of the judge's rulings on
damages will likely be cited for years to come, said Jesse Witten, a
Washington-based lawyer who defends hospitals in cases involving allegations of
Medicare fraud.
"This is the most important health care case of the year," Witten said.
Initially, the hospital declined to release a detailed accounting of legal fees,
citing an exemption in the public records law.
The information was released after the Orlando TV station WFTV sued in Volusia
County circuit court and The News-Journal then requested the same records.
 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


