                              456 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                               The Saudi Gazette

                            January 25, 2016 Monday

Hospitals left to deal with newborns abandoned by mothers without IDs

LENGTH: 347  words


Saudi Gazette report

TAIF - The Ministry of Health has said there have been frequent cases of women
without legal IDs abandoning their newborns to avoid documentation
complications, Makkah Arabic newspaper reported.

Turaif Al-Aama, director of treatment services at the ministry, said both and
public hospitals have dealt with abandoned newborns because their mothers have
no legal documentation.

"There have been many cases of pregnant non-Saudi women who were admitted to
hospital for labor. After giving birth, they would flee the hospital leaving
their newborns without any papers or documentation to trace," said Al-Aama.

He said the interior minister had previously contacted the Ministry of Health
demanding a solution to the problem.

"The minister of health has ordered all maternity hospitals or hospitals with
maternity wards must increase their security. The hospitals must have at least
two labor rooms available for pregnant women with no identifications," said
Al-Aama.

He also said the hospitals should provide intensive security in these rooms to
ensure that the women will not escape.

"The women should also feel safe in these rooms and understand that they will
not be questioned while they are in labor. The Ministry of Health is now
implementing a policy of exclusive labor rooms for pregnant women without any
legal identification," said Al-Aama.

A source from Makkah Health Affairs has said implementing the new policy is not
a simple task.

"We need to find space for new labor rooms and we need to ensure that these
rooms are well maintained. Moreover, the labor rooms are in the women's
sections, which means we need to hire female security guards," said the source.

The source also said hospitals are not involved in determining the legal and
social status of mothers.

"The Ministry of Social Affairs should get involved by providing a shelter for
such women because it would be risky to deport them and their newborns
immediately after birth," said the source.

http://imgs.syndigate.info/511/1526/10/145371093960.jpg

http://imgs.syndigate.info/511/1526/10/145371093960.jpg

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1526


                       Copyright 2016 The Saudi Gazette.
                        Provided by Syndigate Media Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


