                              461 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                          September 22, 1988 Thursday

Who owns heart valve is issue in lawsuit

BYLINE: JOAN BRECKENRIDGE; GAM

LENGTH: 597 words


BY  JOAN BRECKENRIDGE
 The Globe and Mail
  A coming legal battle over a Bjork-Shiley heart valve is expected to set
a precedent for determining who owns these surgically implanted devices in
Canada.

The case revolves around a lawsuit that was launched on Tuesday against
Toronto General Hospital to gain possession of the mechanical heart valve,
which broke apart and killed an Ontario woman last year.

The legal action was started in the District Court of Ontario by John
Judge, the common-law husband of 46-year-old Joyous DeBock , who died
instantly in May, 1987, when the strut of her heart valve broke off.

"Toronto General Hospital is telling me they own the valve and they
want it," said Brian Evans, Mr. Judge's lawyer.

Toronto General Hospital implanted the device in Ms DeBock. The suit
contends that Mr. Judge is the owner of the Bjork-Shiley 21-millimetre,
70-degree aortic heart valve, which is currently in the possession of the
Ontario chief coroner's office.

The valve was an exhibit at a coroner's inquest into the DeBock death
in Toronto last September. Deputy chief coroner James Young has told the
warring parties that he will give the heart valve to whomever the court
awards it.

Pierre Blais, a research scientist with the federal Bureau of Radiation
and Medical Devices and an expert on Bjork-Shiley valves, said this is the
first case he knows of in Canada where a hospital has claimed legal
ownership of a heart valve.

When it comes to the issue of who owns implanted medical devices such
as heart valves, "Canada appears to have no jurisprudence in this area,"
he said from Ottawa yesterday.

Mr. Blais said that in the United States patients pay for medical
devices so they own them. Because Canada has socialized medicine, either
the government, the patient or the hospital could own the device, he said.
"It's an area that's appropiate for legal debate."

Mr. Judge and surviving members of Ms DeBock's family have launched
another legal action in California alleging, amongst other things,
negligence on the part of the U.S. manufacturer of the valve, Shiley
Incorporated.

For the California suit to go ahead, Mr. Evans said, the heart valve
must be returned to its owner, his client, so it can be tested by experts
to prove the allegation that Shiley was negligent in its manufacture.

Alison LeBrocq, a spokesman for Toronto General Hospital, said the
hospital wants the coroner's office to hold on to the valve until the
court determines ownership "so that it's not subjected to any tampering or
damage".

Because of the lawsuit launched in California, Ms LeBrocq said, the
goal of the hospital is to make certain that the heart valve remains
intact so that all the interested parties can test it to determine why it
broke apart.

In a letter to Mr. Evans dated March 17 of this year, J.A. Sawers, a
lawyer for the hospital, stated that "if you are prepared to draft the
appropriate documents releasing the hospital from any future civil action
we would be prepared to consider releasing the Debock Bjorg-Shiley (sic)
heart valve."

Mr. Blais said the Bureau of Radiation and Medical Devices sent a
medical alert notice to hospitals, cardiologists and physicians who care
for cardiac patients on August 20, 1982, telling them that Bjork-Shiley
valves, including the one Ms DeBock was given, were susceptible to
fracture.

Ms DeBock's heart valve was implanted on or about Nov. 17, 1982, at
Toronto General Hospital, according to the statement of claim filed in the
Ontario District Court.

On June 8, 1983, Shiley Incorporated recalled all series and sizes of
the Bjork-Shiley 70-degree convexo-concave heart valves.

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1988 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


