                              459 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

              March 12, 1996, Tuesday, 4 State / Suncoast Edition

Tampa General hunt for chief starts over

BYLINE: MARTY ROSEN

SECTION: METRO & STATE; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 537 words

DATELINE: TAMPA



Tainted by bad legal advice, a nationwide search for a new president of Tampa
General Hospital was scrapped Monday.

Instead, hospital board members voted to start over again Friday, using  legal
advice from the same lawyer who created the legal mess.

The public board, with some confusion, rejected a bid to fire the Tampa law
firm of Allen, Dell, Frank & Trinkle, whose lawyers had erroneously approved
the first process that violated Florida's open government laws.

Board member Pat Frank reasoned that after making so many errors, attorney  Mike
Brown should be familiar with the law.

Brown abruptly left the hospital after a closed-door session in which board
members questioned his abilities and raised issues of his firm's liability for
the costly mistakes. He later refused to comment.

Two of the three finalists said Monday the delay has not tempered their
interest in the job.

"Those things happen," said finalist Dan Couch, 58, deputy executive  director
of Truman Medical Center in Kansas City, Mo. "I think there are a  lot of things
going for Tampa General. The real question is, is everybody  ready to jump on
board and move ahead?"

The board was scheduled to learn more about the finalists Monday, but the
process unraveled after the Times sued to make their names public.

Brown later admitted last week in a private meeting that he erred by  approving
a secret screening process. The search was deemed illegal because  the board
delegated a portion of the decision-making process to a committee  that met out
of public view.

However, the aborted search has not ended the legal wranglings.

Hillsborough Circuit Judge Manuel Menendez Monday gave the consultant who
conducted the search until 10 a.m. Thursday to give job applicants an
opportunity to prove that disclosing their names could hurt them.

The adage "justice delayed is justice denied is very appropriate," he  said,
since his ruling denied access for another 72 hours.

"This is a very complex and treacherous process and it takes an expert to
clearly define parameters," Karl said. "I would be more comfortable if we  had a
legal adviser who specializes in this field."

Consultant Ed French was represented by Tampa lawyer Rob Williams, the  former
hospital board chairman who led the failed attempt in 1989 to privatize  Tampa
General. Williams agreed in a hearing Monday that the public has a right  to the
records, but said releasing names would violate the privacy rights of  the
candidates.

While more than 275 resumes were mailed to him, French later said in a
deposition that he only maintained a list of about 50 serious candidates,
including 16 finalists who flew at the hospital's expense to interviews in
Atlanta and Scottsdale, Ariz. The hospital board, which will decide on a new
search process Friday, has not yet sought to obtain those records.

French and board chairwoman Phyllis Busansky called three finalists Monday  to
apologize for the botched search and urge the candidates to reapply for the
job. All three, who were recruited by French for the Tampa General job, are  top
hospital executives with stellar reputations in the healthcare industry.

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1996 Times Publishing Company


