                              457 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                The Irish Times

                              July 11, 2016 Monday

Hospital executives may keep top-ups;
Managers at National Maternity Hospital paid up to EUR 39,000 in addition to
salary

BYLINE: Martin Wall, Elaine Edwards

SECTION: IRELAND; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 563 words


Talks are understood be under way which may see a number of senior personnel at
the National Maternity Hospital being permitted to retain salaries higher than
those officially sanctioned by the Health Service Executive.

The controversy dates back to 2013 when a HSE audit into top-up payments to
senior executives in voluntary hospitals and agencies funded by the exchequer -
known as section 38 bodies - found that additional money from private sources
was paid to three managers at the National Maternity Hospital.

The amounts ranged from EUR 30,000 to EUR 39,000 a year.

A document subsequently drawn up by the Department of Health said the privately
funded additional payments were made to the secretary manager, the director of
nursing and the financial controller at the hospital.

The source of the funding used to pay the top-ups - although never publicly
disclosed - is understood to be money paid to the hospital by insurers for
accommodating private patients in its facilities.

The hospital had said that neither funding from the State nor donations were
used to supplement executive pay.

The HSE said this weekend: "The National Maternity Hospital entered into a
process towards compliance in 2014 following the initiation of an internal
audit."

Legal obligation

A spokesman for the hospital said it had legal advice that it was contractually
obliged to pay current salaries.

"We have shared our legal advice with the HSE and shown them the relevant
contracts of employment, and are hopeful this will be now resolved
satisfactorily."

A number of other voluntary hospitals and health agencies have been allowed to
continue to make additional payments to senior staff on a "red-circled" or
individualised basis where there was a contractual commitment.

Last November, then minister for health Leo Varadkar said top-ups would be
retained for incumbents but that any future appointees would have to adhere to
public-sector pay policy.

Not compliant

Last Friday, the HSE said it did not consider the St John of God organisation to
be compliant with public pay policy in light of recent disclosures about
remuneration to senior staff.

Meanwhile, it has emerged that the Department of Health questioned the founder
of the Console charity, Paul Kelly, in 2011 on foot of concerns raised that he
had passed himself off several years ago as a hospital doctor.

RTÉ's This Week programme said it had been told by the department it had pursued
claims about Mr Kelly's past behaviour after being contacted by a parliamentary
assistant working for a TD.

The parliamentary assistant, Tommy Morris, had maintained Mr Kelly had obtained
a job as a casualty ward doctor in the 1980s under false pretences and spent
three weeks working on the ward until caught by gardaí.

Former minister for health James Reilly previously said he vaguely remembered
some issues about Mr Kelly being raised with him informally by Mr Morris, but he
said it was never put in writing and he knew no more about it. In a statement
last Sunday night the department confirmed it did examine the issues raised on
foot of concerns flagged by Mr Morris five years ago, at a time when Mr Reilly
was minister.

The interim chief executive of Console, David Hall, confirmed yesterday that
discussions were ongoing with a "number of parties" and the HSE in relation to
the continued provision of the suicide charity's services.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2016 The Irish Times
                              All Rights Reserved


