                              460 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                                 examiner.co.uk

                       August 28, 2017 Monday 5:11 PM GMT

Hospital campaigners set for legal action to save Huddersfield Royal Infirmary;

Hands Off HRI is urging people to attend a public meeting to hear the case for
their legal bid

BYLINE: By Henryk Zientek

LENGTH: 484 words


Campaigners opposing a major shake-up of hospital services are set to launch
legal action at a public meeting this week.

Leaders of Hands Off HRI are urging residents ofHuddersfieldand surrounding
areas to attend the "milestone" public meeting at 7pm on Thursday (Aug 31) at
the Methodist Mission on Lord Street in Huddersfield to get an update on the
campaign and hear legal advice from campaign solicitors Irwin Mitchell.

Calderdale and HuddersfieldNHS Foundation Trustplans to axe the A&E department
atHuddersfield Royal Infirmary, replace the 400-bed hospital with a 64-bed
"planned care" facility and transfer capacity toCalderdale Royal Hospitalin
Halifax which will be expanded to have 676 beds.

Objectors say the decision taken by Kirklees Joint Health Scrutiny Panel on July
21 to refer the plans to health minister Jeremy Hunt and the Independent
Reconfiguration Panel (IRP) had thrown up a huge number of questions about what
this would mean for the communities of Greater Huddersfield and Calderdale in
West Yorkshire.

Disabled people say they will suffer if controversial hospital changes go ahead

Irwin Mitchell leading solicitor Yogi Amin will address the meeting and the
first hour will be given over to questions and answers from the floor.

Hands Off HRI said his advice would include a very clear statement that the
Clinical Commissioning Group (CCG) had overstepped the mark by approving the
final business case to downgrade and shut Huddersfield hospital services without
any clear financial or clinical evidence to back it up.

Hands Off HRI would now need to decide whether or not to formally launch a legal
case against the CCG and to hold their proposals to account. Mr Amin would set
out the case for instigating legal proceedings and all the costs of proceeding
with legal action.

The meeting will also be addressed by Adrian O'Malley, of trade union Unison,
which recently backed the campaign with a £500 donation for the successful
sponsored walk last week.

MPs join Huddersfield hospital campaigners to spread message to Dewsbury

A spokesperson for Hands Off HRI said: "We have been out in Huddersfield town
centre every week leafleting and collecting signatures since councillors
referred the whole process to Jeremy Hunt and the Independent Reconfiguration
Panel.

"In spite of the decision by Kirklees andCalderdalecouncillors, theGreater
Huddersfield CCGhas approved the final business case to downgrade HRI and shut
our A&E regardless. This has created a lot of public anger but also public
confusion about what is actually happening.

"We hope the meeting can address all these questions and of course decide what
we now need to do to take our campaign forward. To continue to maintain the
fantastic support people have given this campaign, it's very important everyone
is kept informed about the future of their hospital."

Crowds outside Huddersfield Town Hall for Hands Off HRI protest

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBHDE


                         Copyright 2017 Trinity Mirror
                              All Rights Reserved


