                              453 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                            April 21, 2004 Wednesday
                                  Late Edition

Hospitals' legal threat for nurses

BYLINE: Paul Robinson, Marc Moncrief

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 476 words


Key negotiators for Victorian public hospitals are preparing to take legal
action against nurses over an industrial campaign that will disrupt the hospital
system from today.

The action proposed by the Victorian Hospitals Industrial Association is
expected to inflame what has become an intractable dispute surrounding the
state's health system.

Up to 2000 nurses from across the state met in Melbourne yesterday to endorse a
series of bans designed to close beds, disrupt elective surgery and disorganise
blood processing.

The nurses have lost patience with health officials, whom they say will not
bargain in good faith. They warned yesterday of further bans if the Government
did not drop its opposition to nurse-patient ratios and boost a 3 per cent pay
offer by May 4.

Nurses are defending a ratio of five nurses to 20 patients. They also want pay
rises of about 8 per cent a year. Their campaign is expected to close more than
25 per cent of public hospital beds and disrupt a quarter of elective surgery
procedures.

VHIA chief executive Alec Djoneff said bans and limitations endorsed by nurses
would have an "extremely serious impact" on the ability of hospitals to service
patients.

Mr Djoneff said legal action against the protected campaign could be taken by
major hospitals hit by work bans today.

"We will be monitoring the situation closely. Any number of hospitals could act
quickly if we believe action by nurses is causing a threat to the health and
safety of patients. We think the closing of a quarter of the beds in the system
is calculated to cause maximum harm to Victoria's hospitals," he said.

Victorian Health Minister Bronwyn Pike said action by nurses would have grave
consequences for the health system. She said the dispute was essentially over
the system of nurse- patient ratios imposed on the Government by the Australian
Industrial Relations Commission during an arbitrated settlement of the last
volatile nurses agreement three years ago.

Ms Pike said the system was too restrictive to help patients most in need. "We
say to the union we want to work with you to make the ratio system more flexible
so that it can actually treat the sickest patients more effectively. No nurses
will lose their jobs under a more flexible ratio system, and it's a nonsense to
suggest that they will," she said.

Ms Pike said pay and conditions demanded by the union were "impossible" for the
Government to meet.

Australian Nursing Federation secretary Lisa Fitzpatrick said the Government had
refused to bargain in good faith, leaving nurses little option but to act.

Ratios were "non-negotiable" and underpinned why more than 4000 nurses had
returned to work three years ago. This had made Victoria the only state without
serious shortages at a time of an international nursing staff crisis.

OPINION Editorial, Tandberg NEWS 16

EXPRESS The Last Word NEWS 18

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2004 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


