                              455 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                                  Burton Mail

                           February 28, 2017 Tuesday

Dentist who blew whistle against health trust winslegal case

SECTION: NEWS:OTHER; Pg. 6-7

LENGTH: 621  words


A Burton consultant dentist who complained he was the victim of a witch hunt at
a Shropshire hospital after making whistle-blowing allegations about waiting
list breaches for patients has won legal claims against his former employers.

Paul Dowsing, of Branston, who specialised in treating mainly young patients for
dental regularities, was consultant orthodontist at Telford's Princess Royal
Hospital.

He made legal claims for detriment and constructive unfair dismissal against
Shrewsbury and Telford Hospitals NHS Trust at Birmingham Employment Tribunal
after complaining that he was put under pressure to resign after making
whistle-blowing allegations against the hospital.

He alleged the hospital "covered up" failures to meet patient treatment targets
within 18 weeks - at one stage involving 176 patients - and kept a "hidden"
surgery waiting list of patients.

Mr Dowsing complained that the "waiting patients" could have been lost forever,
considering that some dental work could take up to three years.

Mr Dowsing also alleged the hospital "stopped the clock" for patients when they
had been seen for assessment, rather than when their treatment had commenced.

There was also an allegation that a hospital staff member incorrectly ordered
£10,000 worth of stock.

The trust opposed Mr Dowsing's legal claims and accused him of bringing patients
from his Manor Practice at Burton to the hospital for out-of-hours treatment as
private patients. The hospital complained this was a breach of contract and
twice excluded (suspended) him for a total of nearly 21 months.

An investigation was carried out into the situation and Mr Dowsing complained he
became the victim of a witch hunt.

In a deferred ruling, tribunal judge Ron Broughton has announced that Mr Dowsing
was subjected to detriment and unfairly constructively dismissed as a result of
making whistle-blowing disclosures. But he also said that Mr Dowsing's own
conduct had been "potentially both culpable and contributory".

Mr Broughton said in his report: "The respondent's evidence with regard to the
alleged cover-up in relation to waiting lists was both patchy and contradictory.

"It was admitted before us that the respondent had been incorrectly stopping the
clock for patients once they had been seen by a consultant as opposed to it
continuing to run until their treatment had actually commenced.

"It was further admitted that a book was maintained which contained the name of
patients awaiting treatment.

"While it was not admitted that this was in any way connected with any attempted
cover-up regarding waiting lists, it was the respondent's evidence that once
they discovered the existence of this book the staff member concerned was told,
in no uncertain terms, to stop using it immediately."

Mr Broughton continued: "It certainly did appear that the manner in which the
claimant conducted matters fell considerably short of best practice but,
equally, he was working under intense pressure and delivering, it would appear,
a phenomenal quality and quantity of care to patients.

"That, it would appear, is something that the respondent completely lost sight
of and should, perhaps, have formed more of a principal focus of their
attention.

"The claimant was, from all the evidence that we heard, an extraordinary
orthodontist.

"We heard he somehow managed to see more than twice as many patients as his
peers and seemingly did so without any patient complaint and received several
plaudits.

"He appears to have been held in high regard by many and to have had an almost
impossible workload due to demand, the time critical nature of some of the
treatments, under-staffing and financial constraints."

A tribunal spokesman said an undisclosed award had since been made.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                           Copyright 2017 Localworld
                              All Rights Reserved


