                              454 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                              Messenger Newspapers

                           October 14, 2015 Wednesday

Campaign group launches legal action following hospital downgrade

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 349 words


DOCTORS campaigning against the downgrade of Wythenshawe hospital are taking
legal action - a move which health bosses claim could cost the taxpayer up to
half a million pounds.

On Monday, campaign group Keep Wythenshawe Special issued legal proceedings for
a judicial review of the decision to not designate Wythenshawe as a 'specialist'
hospital.

The campaign group, made up of members of staff at the hospital, said that the
loss of specialist status will have a 'catastrophic impact on patient care' and
began legal proceedings after talks with the two sides broke down.

Speaking on behalf of Keep Wythenshawe Special, consultant surgeon Andrew
Macdonald, said: "It is with great regret that we feel we have been left with no
choice but to take formal legal action.

"We have not been given the assurances we sought from the commissioning groups
and have real concerns about how the plans will affect patient safety in the
Greater Manchester region."

The decision not to grant specialist status to Wythenshawe Hospital was made by
12 Greater Manchester NHS clinical commissioning groups in July,as part of the
'Healthier Together' reorganisation of hospital provision in Greater Manchester.

A judge is expected to consider whether to allow the case to proceed to a full
judicial review hearing early next month.

Dr Nigel Guest, GP, chief clinical officer of Trafford CCG and member of the
Healthier Together committees in common, said the legal challenge is 'extremely
disappointing'.

He said that £500,000 of public funds has been put aside to defend the case
should the judge grant permission to proceed.

"This money should be spent on patient care and improving local services," he
added.

"We have met with these individuals a number of times to understand their
concerns and tried to resolve the issue collaboratively, rather than going
through a legal process. However, the group has refused further meetings and has
formed a private company, Keep Wythenshawe Special, in order to sue the NHS."

Dr Guest also asserted that, despite reports to the contrary, every A&E will
remain open in the region.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2015 NewsQuest Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


