                              465 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                              THE DAILY TELEGRAPH

                            December 30, 2005 Friday
                                 State Edition

Doctor's threat to hospital - Desperate bid to save a dying patient's life

BYLINE: ANDREW CARSWELL

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 354  words


A MAN dying from a brain haemorrhage was only admitted to a Sydney hospital
after his doctor threatened legal action, his son claimed yesterday.

Bernard Pozo was rushed to Campbelltown Hospital after collapsing at a local
club last Thursday.

He arrived at 8.30pm in a critical condition and had to wait four hours for a
bed and access to a neurosurgeon -- finally found 50km away at St George
Hospital.

But according to Mr Pozo's son Robert, the 64-year-old was only admitted to St
George when the family doctor threatened legal action.

Mr Pozo was flown to St George at 2.30am, but died at 1.30pm that day.

Set to bury his father today, Robert Pozo believes the ''agonising'' wait to see
a neurosurgeon cost him his life.

He predicted many more families would needlessly suffer similar tragedies till
the State Government fixed a ''sick health system''.

''The delay was ridiculous. I'm stunned and devastated ...'' he said. ''They did
the CAT scan and told us it was a serious brain haemorrhage around 9.30pm. He
was flown to St George at 2.30am. That tells the story.

''What we went through, no-one should have to go through that. But I fear they
will unless the government prioritises its sick health system.''

While enjoying a night out at the Campbelltown RSL, the grandfather started to
complain of headaches, broke into a sweat and vomited.

''The doctor knew it was urgent. He was pleading with hospitals to take him and
at one stage said to the St George Hospital 'I will take legal action if you
don't take him'.

''They finally relented.''

Mr Pozo's death comes two years after a Health Care Complaints Commission found
serious concerns at the number of deaths and patient care at Campbelltown and
Camden hospitals.

Campbelltown Hospital general manager Amanda Larkin told The Daily Telegraph
last week there was ''no evidence of unreasonable delay or inadequate care'' for
Mr Pozo.


Family claims:

Critically ill Bernard Pozo was only given access to a neurosurgeon after his
family doctor threatened legal action

Hospital claims:

''No evidence of unreasonable delay or inadequate care'' for Mr Pozo on the part
of Campbelltown Hospital

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

MATP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTM


                   Copyright 2005 Nationwide News Pty Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


