                              466 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                 EKantipur.com

                            August 6, 2014 Wednesday

Restaurant, health facility being operated in same building

LENGTH: 450 words

DATELINE: PANCHTHAR


PANCHTHAR, Aug. 6 -- In an utter disregard to the legal system, a hospital and
restaurant have been found operating on the same building.Despite the government
having banned the sale and use of alcohol and tobacco products within 100 metres
of medical and academic institutions, the restaurant with a bar is under the
same roof of that of the hospital for a year.

While 'Hotel Prashant Restaurant and Lodge' occupies the third and fourth floor,
the second floor houses Nepal SBI Bank with Pathivara Health Care Hospital on
the remaining floors of the building located along the Mechi Highway adjacent to
the District Traffic Police Office. Moreover, the hospital is

surrounded by a dozen shops selling various products.

"It is surprising to witness the sale of alcohol and tobacco products in the
building that has a health care facility," said local Ek Raj Bhandari, adding
that the situation was the consequence of the weak legal system and negligence
of concerned authorities.

The locals claimed that the situation was no different at the District Hospital,
and vented ire at the concerned authorities for failing to bring to book those
operating their business against the law.

Meanwhile, hospital operator Sumesh Udas claimed that the restaurant and
hospital had been operating from the same building as there was no provision in
the law which states that the two cannot operate from the same building. "As
there are several hospitals running in a similar condition the government cannot
just single us out," Udas said. However, despite his claims that the hospital
was established before the restaurant, the surrounding shops were found to have
been operating long before the establishment of the hospital.

Expressing confusion over the course of action to be taken, District Public
Health Office chief Dr Pawan Jung Rayamajhi said the legal provision was vague
and that they had sought proper interpretation of the issue from the concerned
department. Rayamajhi said that they would further discuss on possible actions
to be taken once they receive directives from the centre.

Rayamajhi further said that the hospital only had 15 beds as opposed to the
mandatory provision of requiring a minimum of 25 beds and that the pharmacy
within the

hospital premises was not its own and instead run by an individual. Meanwhile,
Assistant Chief District Officer Yagya Acharya said as the issue was related to
human health, they had asked the DPHO and small industries around the area to
furnish a report on the matter.

Published by HT Syndication with permission from EKantipur.com. For any query
with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact
Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2014 Kantipur Publications Pvt. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


