                              462 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                          Rhode Island Lawyers Weekly

                                  June 6, 2005

U.S. Magistrate Judges Case Summaries: June 6, 2005

BYLINE: Rhode Island Lawyers Weekly Staff

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1506  words


Civil Practice

Deposition - Hospital

Where a defendant hospital seeks a protective order to prevent or significantly
restrict a deposition in a case brought under the Emergency Medical Treatment
and Active Labor Act, the hospital's motion must be denied despite the fact that
the plaintiffs intend to inquire into "opinions and subjective beliefs. "

Scope Of Deposition

"Although the [defendant South County] Hospital vigorously argues that
Plaintiff's Rule 30(b)(6) deposition notice impermissibly seeks discovery as to
legal conclusions and not facts relevant to Plaintiff's EMTALA claims, it does
not cite any legal precedent in support of its argument. This Court has
conducted independent research which reveals that a Rule 30(b)(6) witness may be
subject to questioning regarding an entity's 'opinions and subjective beliefs. '
...

"The Hospital has simply not met its 'heavy burden' under Fed. R. Civ. P. 26(c)
for an order barring or 'severely' limiting Plaintiff's Second Rule 30(b)(6)
deposition. Plaintiff's Second Amended Complaint contains specific claims
alleging that the Hospital is subject to EMTALA and that EMTALA's requirements
were violated in connection with the care and treatment received by the minor
patient through the Hospital' s Emergency Department. The Hospital has proffered
denials to most of the allegations related to Plaintiff's EMTALA claims
including a denial of the Hospital's status as a 'covered hospital. ' The
Hospital has also left Plaintiff 'to her proof' as to whether the minor
patient's head injury was an 'emergency medical condition' under EMTALA.
Plaintiff is entitled to discovery relevant to her EMTALA claims under Fed. R.
Civ. P. 26(b)(1) and, as discussed above, is entitled to inquire as to the areas
identified in the Rule 30(b)(6) deposition notice even if they may relate in
part to legal issues. In reaching this conclusion, this Court, of course, offers
no opinion as to the ultimate admissibility of any such 'opinion testimony' at
trial. ... In addition, the Hospital maintains its right to present objections
at the deposition, as appropriate, to preserve its position. "

Wadenstein v. South County Hospital, et al. (Lawyers Weekly No. 54-050-05) (5
pages) (Almond, U.S.M.J.) (C.A. No. 04-326S) (May 27, 2005).

Education

Individualized Education Plan - 'FAPE'

Where the parents of a special education student have appealed a school
district's transfer of the student to a newly instituted clinical day program,
the parents should be awarded summary judgment on the ground that the transfer
does not meet the "free appropriate public education" standard.

Magistrate Judge's Reasoning

"Before this Court are Cross-Motions for Summary Judgment (Document Nos. 23 and
25) pursuant to Fed. R. Civ. P. 56 filed in February and March 2005. The parties
are the Chariho Regional School District and John and Jane Doe, on behalf of
their minor son John Doe (collectively the 'Family'). This matter has been
referred to me for report and recommendation. 28 U.S.C. Sect. 636(b)(1)(B);
Local Rule of Court 32(c). A hearing was held on May 5, 2005. After reviewing
the Administrative Record and Memoranda submitted, listening to the arguments of
counsel and conducting my own independent research, I recommend that Chariho's
Motion for Summary Judgment be denied and the Family's Motion for Summary
Judgment be granted. ...

"On April 13, 2004, the Family and Chariho each requested an impartial
due-process hearing regarding the implementation of John's IEP. Six hearing days
were held in May and June 2004. The Hearing Officer issued her decision on
August 2, 2004 finding, in relevant part, that (1) Chariho had the burden of
proof since it was seeking to change the student's placement; (2) moving the
student from the [South Shore School to [Reaching Youth through Support and
Education] was a change in 'educational placement' and not simply a location
change; (3) any claimed procedural violations by Chariho did not affect the
outcome in significant and prejudicial ways; and (4) placement of the student in
the RYSE program would provide him with a free appropriate public education
('FAPE'). ...

"Both parties have appealed the Hearing Officer's Decision. Chariho disputes her
finding that the proposed transfer from the SSS to RYSE was a 'change in
educational placement' but does not dispute her conclusion, placing the ultimate
burden of proof on Chariho regarding the appropriateness of the proposed
transfer. The Family disputes her procedural and substantive findings as to the
provision of a FAPE to John. For the reasons discussed below, this Court
concludes that the Hearing Officer's determination as to a 'change in education
placement' is legally correct and supported by the record and should be affirmed
but that her FAPE determination is legally erroneous and factually unsupported
by the record and should be reversed. ...

"Based on a review of the entire record and John's history, this Court concludes
that the Hearing Officer's decision as to a FAPE is not legally correct and not
supported by the record and thus, should be reversed. This conclusion should not
in any way be taken as a condemnation of the RYSE program. As noted above, the
record supports a conclusion that RYSE is a strong and innovative program.
However, this Court concludes that while RYSE may be appropriate for most
emotionally disturbed students, it is not an appropriate placement for John
under the specific and ... unique circumstances of his situation. ...

"John is a student who apparently needs and has benefitted from the stable
environment he has been provided at the SSS. The Hearing Officer recognized that
he is 'succeeding academically' at the SSS and is 'happy there. ' ... John is
not a ping-pong ball. He is a boy who has already been bounced around too much
in his life. While Chariho may well be correct that its RYSE program can support
someone with John's needs, the focus ... should be on the disabled child.
Chariho was part of the decision to place John at the SSS . The fact that John
happened to enroll at Chariho during a transitional period when RYSE was being
established is not a valid reason by itself to interfere with the IEPs developed
for John at the SSS in December 2002 and March 2003. While the record
establishes that the RYSE program has the potential to meet the needs of many,
if not most, of Chariho's special education students, it simply does not meet
John's unique set of needs under the particular circumstances and history of his
case. ...

"For the reasons stated, I recommend that Chariho's Motion for Summary Judgment
(Document No. 23) be denied and the Family's Motion for Summary Judgment
(Document No. 25) be granted and that the District Court conclude that the
Hearing Officer's determination as to a 'change in educational placement' is
legally correct and supported by the record and should be affirmed but that her
FAPE determination is legally incorrect and factually unsupported by the record
and should be reversed. "

Doe, et al. v. Chariho Regional School District (Lawyers Weekly No. 54-049-05)
(16 pages) (Almond, U.S.M.J.) (C.A. No. 04-375L) (May 27, 2005).

Social Services

Disability Insurance Benefits

Where a plaintiff has appealed an administrative law judge's denial of the
plaintiff's application for disability insurance benefits, the appeal must fail,
as the plaintiff has demonstrated no reversible error on the part of the ALJ.

"The ALJ found that the claims presented by the plaintiff were not supported by
the record and were not deemed to be credible to the extent alleged. The ALJ
also found that the plaintiff maintained the residual functional capacity to
perform light work although she was restricted from lifting more than 20 pounds
occasionally and could lift up to 10 pounds on a regular basis. The plaintiff
was also determined to be restricted by a moderate impairment in her ability to
concentrate and to attend to work tasks on a sustained basis and could have only
minimal interaction with co-workers and supervisors. ...

"I find that there is substantial evidence in this record to support the
Commissioner's final decision. I find no basis for concluding that the ALJ
failed to evaluate the entire record properly. She exhaustively outlined
plaintiff's testimony. She was equally complete in summarizing the substantial
medical evidence. She correctly concluded that the medical evidence did not
support a finding of disability. The ALJ is not bound by plaintiff's
self-serving allegations ... and may reject them where, as here, the testimony
is unsupported by the whole medical evidence and where the medical conditions
would not reasonably be expected to produce the limitations alleged. ... The ALJ
thoroughly considered the evidence of record in reaching her credibility
finding, and that finding is entitled to deference. ... I find no error on the
part of the ALJ in applying these standards. "

Fielder v. Barnhart (Lawyers Weekly No. 54-048-05) (20 pages) (Lovegreen,
U.S.M.J.) (CA 03-513LO) (May 27, 2005).

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

