                              464 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            October 23, 2012 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Children's heart surgery units are thrown a lifeline;
Review ordered of controversial closure decision

BYLINE: Martin Barrow

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 539 words


The children's heart surgery unit at the Royal Brompton Hospital was given hope
yesterday when the Health Secretary ordered a review into a decision to
streamline paediatric heart services.

Jeremy Hunt has asked the Independent Reconfiguration Panel to reassess the
decision to close units at Leeds General Infirmary and Glenfield Hospital,
Leicester, as well as the Royal Brompton in Chelsea.

The move has echoes of the ill-fated awarding of the West Coast Main Line
franchise to FirstGroup, which was challenged by Virgin, the current operator.
"Technical flaws" were found in the bidding process, with millions of pounds of
taxpayers' money likely to be paid out in compensation.

The new look at the children's heart service decision comes after a number of
legal challenges were launched, raising the prospect of a series of judicial
reviews.

Councillors in Lincolnshire and Leicestershire contacted Mr Hunt with concerns
about the closure of the unit at Glenfield. Earlier this month, a campaign group
fighting to keep the Leeds unit open launched legal proceedings against NHS
officials who made the decision. Save Our Surgery said that it had filed for a
judicial review against the Joint Committee of Primary Care Trusts' decision to
close the unit.

A Department of Health spokesman confirmed that Mr Hunt had asked the
Independent Reconfiguration Panel to conduct a full review of the Safe and
Sustainable review of Children's Congenital Heart Services.

In July it was announced that the hospitals would stop performing the specialist
surgery to streamline paediatric congenital cardiac surgery services.

Officials decided to close the units after an NHS review concluded that
expertise was spread too thinly and should be concentrated in fewer hospitals.
The Safe and Sustainable review followed the inquiry into children's heart
surgery at Bristol Royal Infirmary between 1990 and 1995, where up to 35
children and babies died as a result of poor care.

After the inquiry, it was recommended that paediatric cardiac units be set a
target for the number of operations per year, and that surgery be concentrated
in specialist centres to ensure quality of care.

The institutions that will house the specialist surgery centres are: Evelina
Hospital, which is part of Guy's and St Thomas' Hospital Trust in London; Great
Ormond Street in London; Southampton General Hospital; Birmingham Children's
Hospital; Bristol Royal Hospital for Children; the Freeman Hospital in
Newcastle; and Alder Hey Children's Hospital in Liverpool.

Last night a spokesman for Royal Brompton & Harefield NHS Foundation Trust,
which failed in an earlier legal challenge, said: "We are delighted to hear that
the Secretary of State for Health has asked for a full review of the Safe and
Sustainable review of children's congenital heart services. We hope that this
new review offers a real chance to re-consider the significant damage to patient
care that will result if children's heart surgery and intensive care are removed
from Royal Brompton Hospital.

"We look forward to a thorough review of all the facts, in a truly independent
context, and will of course co-operate fully with the Independent
Reconfiguration Panel."

The panel is due to report back by February.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The Evelina Hospital is one of those that will perform specialist
surgery
The Royal Brompton mounted a legal challenge to attempts at streamlining

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2012 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


