                              48 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                 The Morning Bulletin (Rockhampton, Queensland)

                            March 2, 2016 Wednesday

Legal action sought after birth

BYLINE:  Trinette Stevens

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 515  words



HIGHLIGHT: Parents employ law firm after daughter sustains brain damage

About the review

 There were four serious incidents during childbirths at the Rockhampton
Hospital in the past 12 months

One baby died

Three babies suffered serious injuries

The babies were transferred to Brisbane specialists due to the seriousness of
injuries

Each case was investigated

A PERSON'S first pregnancy is meant to be full of joy and anticipation, but for
one couple the process has reportedly ended in brain damage, a hospital review
and likely legal action.

One of the four families whose childbirth complications have been included in an
independent review of Rockhampton Hospital's maternity unit has sought legal
advice from law firm Maurice and Blackburn.

Details from the firm allege the couple's baby, who is suspected to have
cerebral palsy following a delivery at Rockhampton Hospital, was born not moving
or breathing on August 8 last year.

The birth reportedly followed several prior trips to the hospital as the mother
had high blood pressure, protein in her urine and was "puffy".

On August 3, it was discovered the baby wasn't moving very much and the decision
was made to induce the birth.

The mother was reportedly sent home at 2am and on August 8 eventually gave birth
to a baby girl, who did not breathe on her own for 45 minutes and had to be
resuscitated.

Maurice Blackburn's medical negligence principal Sarah Atkinson said the family
approached the practice for legal representation before the Rockhampton Hospital
began its investigations and review.

"The family felt strongly enough to seek legal advice and while we are still
investigating the case and obtaining specialist reports on the baby's medical
condition, we can't comment about what happened," she said.

"However at Maurice Blackburn we often find the root cause of many medical legal
cases is failed hospital processes and understaffing.

"At this stage this legal action should in no way be seen as a criticism of any
hospital staff, we just want to get to the bottom of what happened and prevent
it from happening again."

The baby girl was flown to Royal Brisbane and Women's Hospital a day after her
birth, where Brisbane specialists placed her in the Intensive Care Unit and
"cooled" her for three days before warming her back up.

Cooling is the practice of placing babies on cold mats in order to reduce cell
death and any brain injury that may have occurred at birth.

The baby also started having seizures.

Brain scans were performed, confirming the baby had suffered brain damage and
specialists reportedly advised this had affected the baby's posture.

Ms Atkinson said the firm's interest was to ensure the family have the financial
means to provide for their child's ongoing care.

Meanwhile, Central Queensland Hospital and Health Service chief executive Len
Richards (pictured)said he supported the right of these families to engage legal
representation.

"The independent review will identify any improvements that can be made and we
will work with the families involved to let them know the findings," he said.
"Our aim is to build the best possible health-care service for Central
Queenslanders."

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: RMB


                    Copyright 2016 APN Newspapers Pty. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


