                              468 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                    The Orange County Register (California)

                            November 30, 2008 Sunday
                                   1 Edition

Donors left without answers;
Now that South Coast Medical Center dissolved its foundation, some wonder what
will happen to its assets, worth $15 million.

BYLINE: By KELLI HART; The Orange County Register

SECTION: LOCAL; Pg. Cover_B

LENGTH: 856 words


Following the dissolution of South Coast Medical Center's foundation, former
foundation members, hospital donors and community members are now wondering what
will become of the foundation's assets.

Adventist Health on Nov. 14 announced St. Joseph Health System as the selected
bidder for the Laguna Beach hospital. The morning of the selection, Adventist
Health and South Coast CEO Bruce Christian dissolved the foundation in a
closed-door meeting, leaving board members stunned and confused, said hospital
donor and three-year foundation member Susan Morrison.

"We left the room kind of shell-shocked," Morrison said.

At issue is what will become of the foundation's $15 million in assets,
including the hospital's $9.7 million Medical Office Building, which became
property of Adventist Health, a nonprofit organization stationed in Roseville
that helps operate health care facilities.

Now that the foundation no longer exists, Adventist Health has legal right to
sweep those assets, said Jerry Peters, Adventist Health's attorney.

Foundation members and major donors now fear that the assets they raised for the
foundation will not be used to benefit the hospital in the way that they had
intended.

Peters said that an affiliation agreement signed 10 years ago allows the medical
center and Adventist Health to assume the foundation's assets.

The charitable foundation was established in 1976 to encourage donations to the
hospital and to fund projects and upgrades.

The affiliation agreement, signed by foundation members and Adventist Health,
stated that the foundation and the medical center would stay separate entities
but would merge if the hospital could not stay open on its own, according to
legal documents. The agreement also states the foundation's assets would be
available to Adventist Health for assuming the challenge of saving the medical
center from closure, which it has been doing the past 10 years, according to
Peters and legal documents.

The affiliation agreement in 2006 became "moot" when the foundation transferred
its membership to the medical center, Peters said by e-mail.

"Since that date, SCMC has had the legal right to merge the foundation into
SCMC, thereby assuming control over all of the foundation's assets," Peters
said. "This merger did not happen as a function of the affiliation agreement,
but instead is a function of the articles and bylaws of the foundation (and
California nonprofit law)."

Morrison said other foundation members and donors like herself feel slighted now
that their donated money could potentially be used toward Adventist Health's
other hospitals or to pay the medical center's debts.

Morrison also said that Christian told foundation members a month ago that, even
though the legal language existed allowing the medical center and Adventist
Health to take the foundation's assets, they would never try to do that.

Christian is out of state and unavailable for comment.

After Adventist Health announced St. Joseph Health System as the medical
center's bidder, the pending sale transaction was sent to the state Attorney
General's Office for approval. Peters said that the use of the foundation's
assets will be decided by the attorney general.

"The attorney general looks to make sure that the assets are best used in a way
that helps the community, but we cannot tell you exactly what that is until
after we file our notice with the attorney general," Peters said.

Of the assets in question, community members are concerned that the unrestricted
funds -- funds that were donated to the hospital and not designated for any
specific use -- will be used to pay off the medical center's debts. A legal memo
states that the medical center sustained a total net loss of $44.7 million from
1998 to August 2008. The memo also states that Adventist Health covered those
losses by borrowing money from its other affiliated hospitals.

Restricted funds are designated for a specific purpose, such as a donation made
to improve the radiology program. Unrestricted funds have no outlined purpose
and the money can be used toward any hospital operations.

Peters said that the attorney general will examine the unrestricted funds,
restricted funds and liabilities of the medical center and determine how the
assets will be dispersed.

"SCMC will be required to use its unrestricted assets first to pay off its
debts," Peters said.

Once the attorney general has approved the sale transaction, they will include a
list of conditions to accompany the sale. These conditions could include the use
of restricted funds, according to Peters.

In a similar transaction, the attorney general approved the sale of Paradise
Valley Hospital in San Diego also under Adventist Health, in February 2007 and
conditionally required that Adventist Health deposit $3 million into a
restricted fund to support healthcare services to the hospital's patients.

Peters said that the attorney general will hold a public hearing 60 days after
the transaction was submitted to hear the community's input on the distribution
of assets.

The CT scanner room at South Coast Medical Center in Laguna Beach.

949-454-7391 or  khart@ocregister.com

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

