                              467 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                           Palm Beach Post (Florida)

                            February 23, 2009 Monday
                                 FINAL EDITION

GREAT PROFIT IMPORTANCE

SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 14A

LENGTH: 369 words


JFK Medical Center in Atlantis and Delray Medical Center, both for-profit
hospitals, have embarrassed themselves by continuing a six-year losing battle to
keep not-for-profit Bethesda Healthcare System from expanding.

The hospitals have filed motions for a rehearing before the 4th District Court
of Appeal, which last month approved Bethesda's plan to build an 80-bed,
$80million hospital west of Boynton Beach. The sore losers are hoping that the
Florida Supreme Court will hear the case on the grounds that it is of "great
public importance."

The appeal is expected to delay Bethesda's plans to build the hospital by at
least another year, which will keep more patients going to JFK and Delray.
"Every day there is a delay is another day that patients out in west Boynton who
may have wanted to have closer access to a hospital will have to go to a
hospital further away," said Bethesda's attorney, John Parker. "I can assure you
that one day's gains from having patients will far exceed their one day's worth
of legal fees."

In 2003 and 2007, state regulators approved Bethesda's hospital at Boynton Beach
Boulevard and U.S. 441. Both times, competitors Wellington Regional Medical
Center, JFK and Delray have fought the project in court. They argue that the
hospital would worsen shortages of doctors and nurses and increase overall
health costs.

Bethesda has long argued that people living west of Boynton need quicker access
to medical care, particularly for emergencies. An administrative law judge
agreed. So did the appeals court. Yet JFK and Delray refuse to concede.
Wellington Regional has not yet joined this latest battle in futility.

Mr. Parker said an amendment approved by the Legislature last year to the law
governing certificates of need for new hospitals will severely restrict future
legal battles. The amendment requires that parties appealing a final order that
grants a new hospital pay the winning hospital's legal fees and costs up to $1
million if they lose the appeal.

Since this case has been about money, JFK, Delray and Wellington would have been
far less likely to keep up this fight had the law been in effect sooner. The
courts can help by rushing this appeal and reaching the same ruling.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

