                              472 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                          manchestereveningnews.co.uk

                     November 24, 2015 Tuesday 10:58 AM GMT

NHS shake-up bosses submit defence after Wythenshawe doctors launch legal bid to
save surgery;
Doctors launched their bid as a result of the Healthier Together hospital
shake-up, which aims to create four 'specialist' hospitals across the region.

BYLINE: By Todd Fitzgerald

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 443 words


Greater Manchester's clinical commissioners have submitted their defence of
Healthier Together plans after a group of Wythenshawe doctors launched legal
action over the move to take emergency abdominal surgery away from the hospital.

Earlier this month, 'Keep Wythenshawe Special' - a company set up for the
purpose - lodged court papers aimed at triggering a judicial review of the
decision, taken by the region's 12 CCGs over the summer.

Doctors launched their bid as a result of the Healthier Together hospital
shake-up, which aims to create four 'specialist' hospitals across the region.

They would become the only sites to deal with emergency abdominal surgery.
Wythenshawe, to the fury of doctors, MPs, and some local councillors, was not
one of those chosen after losing out to nearby Stepping Hill.

A small group of consultants, with the backing of the hospital's much larger
medical staffing committee, launched legal action against the NHS and Greater
Manchester's 12 clinical commissioning groups.

CCG chiefs have now lodged their defence to the decision.

Healthier Together bosses say NHS England; Stockport NHS Foundation Trust; North
Derbyshire CCG; and High Peak and Derbyshire councils have applied to become
'interested parties' in the case.

Stepping Hill was chosen as the fourth and final specialist site because of
better transport links.

NHS bosses originally said the legal action could taxpayers £500,000. The
involvement of other bodies is likely to see that figure increase significantly,
with each interested party having to consult solicitors.

Chris Brookes, chief medical advisor to Healthier Together, said: "Healthier
Together is about raising standards for all patients when they need hospital
treatment thereby focusing on removing variation in care across Greater
Manchester.

"It is disappointing that the benefits to patients of 'shared single services',
which will mean clinicians working across organisational boundaries to provide
reliable care are being compromised by a small number of doctors at Wythenshawe
hospital, who appear disaffected by a clinical decision made by a constituted
Committees in Common of the Greater Manchester CCGs."

CCG chiefs maintain there will be no changes to Wythenshawe's specialist
services.

But doctors, represented by lawyers Irwin Mitchell, say the move would
'downgrade' the hospital. They say the 'catastrophic' move would be 'unlawful'.

A judge is expected to look at the bid - and the CCGs' defence - in the coming
months before ruling whether or not the review can go ahead.

The Healthier Together shake-up will largely continue as planned while the legal
process rumbles on.

Wythenshawe Hospital

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper; Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBGMWNGMANC


                      Copyright 2015 Trinity Mirror, Plc.
                              All Rights Reserved


