                              470 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                         Mail Tribune (Medford, Oregon)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                            April 28, 2010 Wednesday

Hospitals end legal fight over imaging center: Providence will acquire Asante's
share of former joint medical venture

BYLINE: Bill Kettler, Mail Tribune, Medford, Ore.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 571 words


Apr. 28--Medford's two hospitals have reached an accord ending a long legal
battle over their partnership in the region's largest medical imaging service.

Providence Medford Medical Center will acquire Asante Health System's share of
Oregon Advanced Imaging, the joint venture the hospitals started in 2002 along
with the physicians of Medford Radiological Group. Oregon Advanced Imaging
provides medical images such as MRI and PET scans at its offices in Navigators
Landing, near the Medford airport.

Providence will continue to operate the OAI partnership with Medford
Radiological Group, and the physicians will continue to own 18 percent of the
venture. Providence will buy Asante's 43.5 percent share of the business.
Asante, the parent company for Rogue Valley Medical Center, will purchase the
MRI unit at RVMC that was part of the joint OAI venture and operate it
independently.

The hospitals took the case to mediation in November 2009 after Jackson County
Circuit Court Judge Mark Schiveley said he would appoint a receiver to dissolve
the partnership if the parties could not resolve their disputes on their own.

The ownership change will be effective Aug. 1, said Scott Kelly, chief strategy
officer for Asante. Kelly said the parties agreed not to disclose the financial
terms of the agreement.

"I'm glad we came to an agreement that's fair to everyone," Kelly said.

Tom Hanenburg, chief executive for Providence Health and Services in Southern
Oregon, said the settlement shows "you can always work out your disagreements."

Kelly said RVMC will continue to be a good partner in OAI until the dissolution
date. He said other imaging alternatives, such as the MRI equipment at Medford
Medical Clinic, will be available for RVMC patients after the dissolution takes
effect.

RVMC also may evaluate whether it needs to acquire more imaging technology, he
said.

The settlement ends a nearly three-year legal battle between the two hospitals
over the future of the medical imaging center.

Providence sued Asante for breach of contract in July 2007 after Asante
announced that it would end its participation in the joint venture.

Documents introduced in court indicated that Asante had made a verbal commitment
in January 2007 to extend the agreement for five years, but no documents had
been signed. OAI executives testified that, on the strength of that verbal
agreement, they invested some $2.5 million to buy a new MRI with more power than
other scanners in the region.

Schiveley originally gave the hospitals three months to work out an agreement.
He extended the Feb. 1 deadline when the parties reported they were near
agreement.

In his November 2009 ruling, Schiveley took the unusual step of commenting on
the legal fight between the hospitals. He chided administrators on both sides
for "sophomoric attitudes and behavior" that weakened their financially
successful partnership and made it impossible to continue the enterprise.

Reach reporter Bill Kettler at 541-776-4492, or e-mail bkettler@mailtribune.com

To see more of the Mail Tribune, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.mailtribune.com. Copyright (c) 2010, Mail Tribune, Medford, Ore.
Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services. For reprints, email
tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send a fax
to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave.,
Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20100428-ME-Hospitals-end-legal-fight-over-imaging-center-0428

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: ME


                          Copyright 2010 Mail Tribune


