                              473 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                             The Northlines (India)

                              June 11, 2012 Monday

Legal notice to officer probing infant deaths

LENGTH: 348 words

DATELINE: SRINAGAR


SRINAGAR, June 11 -- Former Medical Superintendent of G B Pant Hospital Javid
Chowdhary has served a legal notice on the inquiry officer probing the high
infant mortality rate in the only children's hospital here, accusing him of
destroying important evidence.

Director of Sher-e-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences (SKIMS) Soura Showkat
Ahmad Zargar was served the legal notice by Chowdhary through his counsel on
Sunday.

Accusing Zargar of exceeding his limits, the notice alleged that the inquiry
officer broke open Chowdhary's locker in the hospital without informing him and
took away "important papers" which he had kept for his defence.

"You have exceeded your limits prescribed for an inquiry officer and provided
under law, with ulterior motives, ill-will against the person of my client
(Chowdhary) and you are responsible for whatever has happened and whatever will
happen in future, to the person of my client," the notice read.

Zargar has been appointed as inquiry officer to ascertain the cause of high rate
of deaths in the G B Pant hospital on May 17, on the day Chowdhary was relieved
of his charge as Medical superintendent of the hospital and attached with
Medical Education department.

Chowdhary accused Zargar of destroying important evidence and "manufacturing
some additional documents" to malign his image.

The notice said the infant death were occurring before Chowdhary was given the
charge of the hospital on January 16 at the same rate and still continuing at
the same pace. "The deaths cannot be attributed to any person".

Chowdhary threatened Zargar with a defamation case if the latter failed to stop
"maligning" him and restoring his important evidence on the subject.

A similar legal notice has been served on Dr Muneer Masoodi, who is the current
Medical Superintendent of the G B Pant Hospital for facilitating the breaking
open of Chowdhary's room in the hospital.

Chowdhary has also filed a complaint before the Commissioner Secretary of the
Medical Education Department against Zargar and Masoodi. Published by HT
Syndication with permission from The Northlines.

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement,
please contact Editor at htsyndication@hindustantimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2012 The Northlines
                              All Rights Reserved


