                              476 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

               January 15, 1999, Friday, 0 South Pinellas Edition

Bid for county business might be a conflict for senator

BYLINE: DAVID KARP

SECTION: CITY & STATE; Pg. 4B

LENGTH: 507 words

DATELINE: TAMPA



At the same time he is proposing legislation that affects county government,
state Sen. John Grant has asked whether his private law firm can get a piece of
the county's legal business, officials say.    Grant, a lawyer in the firm of
Harris, Barrett, Mann & Dew, asked County Attorney Emmy Acton to consider
sending county legal business his way during the same meeting that he discussed
legislation that affects the county.    Grant's firm never got any county legal
work, and Acton said Grant never explicitly tied the two subjects together.
But the specter of a state senator soliciting legal work while also discussing
legislation has raised questions.   "As a member of the Legislature, he has
power over our board," Commissioner Jan Platt said Thursday. "I think that it
gives an appearance of a conflict."   Grant acknowledges meeting with Acton to
discuss legislation, but he doesn't recall asking Acton for legal business.   "I
don't remember why I was there," Grant said. "I may have brought (the legal
work) up in passing."   Acton's calendar of Oct. 28 says that Grant came to
speak her that morning about "client development."   Wednesday, Grant appeared
before commissioners to discuss two bills he filed that could affect Tampa
General Hospital. One bill would give hospitals lien power to help them collect
insurance settlements from patients. The other bill could have changed the
Hillsborough County Hospital Authority. Grant now says he plans to withdraw the
hospital authority bill.   Grant told commissioners Wednesday that he had met
with Acton to discuss the bills.    "And I told her that I would be glad to
champion in the Legislature whatever the commission wanted to do in regard to
legislation that would affect Tampa General Hospital," Grant said.   Because of
that comment, Commissioner Jan Platt wanted to know why Grant was meeting with
Acton about legislation without first talking to the commission. Acton later
told Platt the meeting was about a request for business.   Acton would not
discuss the meeting in detail, other than to say that Grant did talk about the
hospital authority bill and business for his firm.   Grant also mentioned the
lien bill, which is still pending. "It came up as an aside," Acton said. "It
wasn't a big issue."   Even so, public interest groups criticized Grant for
mixing Senate work with his business interests.   "A legislator's personal
business should be kept separate from their public, official business,
especially when they stand to gain financially," said Mark Ferrulo, director of
the Public Interest Research Group, a Tallahassee-based good government group,
who spoke about Grant's situation.   Commissioner Pat Frank, who served with
Grant in the Senate, said he should have done more to separate his law firm from
his Senate duties.   "John is very aggressive about trying to get business,"
Frank said. "I was very careful when I was in the Legislature. . . . I never
wanted to be in a situation of conflict."

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: CITY & STATE; METRO & STATE; TAMPA & STATE

GRAPHIC: BLACK AND WHITE PHOTO; COLOR PHOTO, (2); John Grant (ran CITY & STATE,
METRO & STATE); John Grant (ran TAMPA & STATE); County Attorney Emmy Acton (ran
TAMPA & STATE)

                    Copyright 1999 Times Publishing Company


