                              49 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                             July 26, 2014 Saturday

Hospital documents show it contracted with DA's Office, not Walter Reed

LENGTH: 770  words


St. Tammany Parish Hospital produced proof late Friday in the form of board
resolutions that its arrangement with District Attorney Walter Reed to provide
legal advice at its board meetings was with the 22nd Judicial District
Attorney's Office and not, as Reed has asserted, with his private law practice.


A spokesman for Reed issued a statement Friday night saying Reed was under the
impression he was representing the hospital in a private capacity. The statement
also questioned the completeness of the hospital's files.
Reed resigned from his $30,000-a-year job with the hospital in late May, saying
he didn't want to create a distraction for the board of the private,
not-for-profit hospital.
But while Reed has claimed that during their more than 20-year relationship, he
did the work for the hospital as a private lawyer, hospital administrator Patti
Ellish has said the hospital's agreement was with the DA's Office and that Leo
Hemelt, an assistant district attorney, filled in for Reed when he couldn't
attend the board meetings.
According to sources, Hemelt has been subpoenaed by a federal grand jury, which
apparently is investigating Reed's campaign finance spending and his dealings
with the hospital.
The question of whether Reed's hospital work came under the umbrella of the
District Attorney's Office or not raised the possibility that he was enriching
himself personally from work that was essentially billed to taxpayers - much in
the way that former St. Tammany Parish Coroner Peter Galvan benefited from a
private contract to provide medical services to inmates at the Slidell jail, a
contract he satisfied by sending an employee of the Coroner's Office whose
salary was paid by the public. That side deal figured in Galvan's recent
indictment and guilty plea, which resulted in a two-year prison sentence.
For the first time Friday, the hospital acknowledged the federal investigation,
in a statement sent out by the public relations firm Deveney Communication.
"Various news reports have advanced the misconception that an absence of
contract or invoice equals the absence of an appropriate professional legal
service arrangement between our hospital and the District Attorney's Office,'
the statement said. "We have not shared this information earlier because we do
not want to impede an ongoing investigation.'
The statement said the hospital decided to release information showing that it
had appropriately negotiated and managed a professional services arrangement
between it and the DA's Office.  The evidence provided by the hospital consisted
of resolutions adopted by the hospital's governing board in 1992, 1994 and 2001
that approved a retainer to engage the District Attorney's Office for up to 333
hours of legal work. Compensation after that amount of time was to be at an
hourly rate. The retainer started out as $2,084 per month, going up to $2,247.75
in 1994 and up again to $2,500 per month in 2001. That amount remained in effect
for 13 years, the hospital said.
In 2009 the board began to approve fees for all its attorneys annually. "The
District Attorney's Office was approved as one of the legal counsels in 2009,
and each subsequent year, on a retainer basis, at the same rate of $2,500 a
month," the statement said.
"The executed professional services arrangement was proper, authorized by board
resolution, and the requested services were provided,' it said.
Morgan Stewart, a spokesman for Reed, issued this statement Friday night:
"In the mid-90s, the then chairman of the St. Tammany Parish Hospital board,
Paul Cortes, approached Walter Reed and suggested that the board wanted Mr. Reed
to personally perform legal representation services, instead of the personnel
being provided at that time from the District Attorney's Office. Walter Reed's
understanding of that arrangement was based on those conversations.
"The new board's view that Mr. Reed's participation was in his official capacity
as district attorney created an obvious misunderstanding and distraction to the
hospital management. When this misunderstanding became apparent, it became the
sole reason why Mr. Reed withdrew from the arrangement. He did not resign due to
misconduct of any kind.
"The fact is, trying to re-create documentation from two decades ago is very
difficult. As such, over the last few weeks, we also requested these documents
that the hospital decided to release tonight. That one of these key
'resolutions' was in a lawyer's file outside of the hospital records department
calls into question the completeness of the documentation from the hospital."
 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


