                              477 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                January 8, 2004

Women denied legal aid in 'Butcher' rape case

BYLINE: TAHIRA YAQOOB

SECTION: ED_1ST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 393 words


DOZENS of women who claim they were raped by a disgraced gynaecologist have been
forced to drop their case after being refused legal aid.

Forty-two women complained Rodney Ledward was responsible for more than 200 sex
attacks on them while practising as a consultant.

But just five days before launching a compensation claim against Ledward's NHS
employers, they have been forced to withdraw.

The Legal Services Commission, which awards legal aid, has refused to meet the
Pounds 750,000 cost of their six-week High Court case on the grounds that they
fail to meet the necessary financial criteria. Ledward, who died in October
2000, was struck off the medical register in 1998 for a series of blunders at
two hospitals in Kent from 1989 to 1996.

Dubbed ' The Butcher' for his botched operations, he boasted he was 'the fastest
gynaecologist in the South-East'.

After a disciplinary hearing before the General Medical Council, dozens of women
came forward.

There were 32 claims of rape and ten of indecent assault.

One woman claimed she was raped twice in two days when she saw the consultant in
June 1988 at Victoria Hospital in Deal, near Dover.

Another alleged victim said he threatened to hurt her if she didn't relax while
he raped her at Buckland Hospital in December 1983.

The women were planning to sue Kent and Medway Health Authority and East Kent
Hospitals NHS Trust.

However, the refusal to grant legal aid has shocked them as the same body
pledged to fund a civil action by career criminal Brendan Fearon against Norfolk
farmer Tony Martin.

Martin's case sparked an outcry about the right to defend his own home after he
was jailed for life for wounding Fearon and shooting dead 16-year-old
accomplice, Fred Barras.

Ledward's alleged victims now have to decide whether to pay for the case
privately or appeal the decision before an independent committee.

Last night a spokesman for their legal firm, Jane Loveday Solicitors, said: 'All
of the women involved remain determined to fight for justice but it was just not
possible to do so with the lack of legal aid funding.' A spokesman for the Legal
Services Commission said: 'We sympathise with their situation.

Sexual abuse is an appalling crime.' Ledward died of pancreatic cancer at the
age of 62 while under police investigation.

END

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2004 Associated Newspapers Ltd.


