                              474 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                              May 27, 2014 Tuesday

Planned Parenthood, ACLU in court today challenging Wisconsin anti-abortion law

LENGTH: 391  words


Wisconsin's law seeking to put further restrictions on abortion rights goes on
trial today in a federal courtroom in Chicago.
The plaintiffs in this case are Planned Parenthood of Wisconsin and Affiliated
Medical Services. They are represented by attorneys from Planned Parenthood
Federation of America, the American Civil Liberties Union, the ACLU of
Wisconsin, as well as the Wisconsin firm Cullen, Weston, Pines & Bach.


The law being challenged requires abortion providers to obtain staff privileges
at local hospitals. Such laws have been opposed by medical groups such as the
American Medical Association and the American College of Obstetricians and
Gynecologists because rather than enhance patient safety they put women at risk.

Louis Melling, deputing legal director of the ACLU, said in a news release,
"This law was designed by politicians, not doctors, with the single-minded goal
of shutting down women's health care centers and ending access to safe, legal
abortion. Requiring a business arrangement that would decrease women's access to
high quality health care providers doesn't improve women's safety. Opponents are
waging a stealth war on abortion, and women and families are paying the price."
Wisconsin has only four health centers where a woman can have an abortion. The
law, which has been blocked while the legal case proceeds, would force one
provider in Milwaukee to close immediately.
Physicians who provide abortion might not be able to obtain admitting privileges
at local hospitals for a variety of reasons that have nothing to do with their
quality or credentials:
· Reasons include the religious affiliation of the hospitals.
· vVarious hospital bylaw requirements that the physicians cannot satisfy, such
as minimum number of hospital admissions per year, which the physicians cannot
satisfy because abortion is so safe.
· Requirements that the physician live within a certain distance of the
hospital.
Cecile Richards, president of Planned Parenthood of America, said in a news
release, "We all want to protect women's health and safety. This law won't do
that - in fact, it will do the opposite, which is why we are in court on behalf
of the patients who turn to Planned Parenthood health centers for safe,
compassionate, respectful care."
© 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide. Provided by SyndiGate Media Inc.
(Syndigate.info).

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2014 Legal Monitor Worldwide
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved


