                              486 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                            South China Morning Post

                            October 17, 2008 Friday

Borderline fracture

BYLINE: The Cepa deal was supposed to allow local doctors to operate on the
mainland, but bureaucratic, financial and legal obstacles remain, writes Ella
Lee

SECTION: NEWS; Behind the News; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1521 words


If opening up the mainland health care market under the Closer Economic
Partnership Arrangement (Cepa) is a present from Beijing to Hong Kong medical
service providers, it is a gift voucher that has yet to be redeemed. Since the
first generation of Cepa, introduced in 2005, allowed Hong Kong doctors and
dentists to practise up north, those who have tried  to exploit the new
opportunity have struggled with red tape, an information blackout and investor
disinterest.

Some have shelved plans because of a sudden change in policies; some failed to
get professional indemnity protection; while others fear what could happen in
the event of a medical legal case.

That is why there were no big cheers from local practitioners when the latest
Cepa deal with Guangdong - allowing Hong Kong doctors and dentists to practise
solo in the province without having to sit a mainland licensing examination -
was announced in July.

Instead, a wait-and-see attitude prevails, until details of how the system will
work emerge.

The latest economic pact,  effective from January, will  permit Hong Kong
doctors and dentists to set up wholly owned outpatient clinics in Guangdong with
no minimum investment requirement. The practitioners are also exempted from
sitting the mainland examination and obtaining medical practitioner
qualification certificates through accreditation.

The previous Cepa arrangement required a minimum joint-venture investment of 10
million yuan ($11HK.3 million). The response was poor.

Medical Association president Tse Hung-hing  said most Hong Kong doctors had
snubbed Cepa because of uncertainties and risks. The key concern was the legal
liabilities.

While doctors in Hong Kong are covered by the Medical Protection Society (MPS)
for professional indemnity, they cannot get the same protection  on the
mainland.

Dr Tse said the MPS provided only selective protection to Hong Kong doctors who
practised on the mainland and there was no guarantee they could be insured at
all.

Some doctors have complained to the  Medical Association  about the lack of
insurance coverage.

"We don't know about the medical legal system on the mainland; there are no
statistics available on compensation given out on medical legal cases, so it is
difficult for an insurance company to work out a plan in the first place," Dr
Tse said.

"Medical practice is always very high risk.

"Without a clear policy on professional indemnity, Hong Kong doctors will not
feel safe practising on the mainland."

Private Hospitals' Association president Alan Lau Kwok-lam  said local private
hospitals had no plans to set up satellite hospitals on the mainland because of
the potential business risk.

"We are unclear what responsibilities doctors and hospitals have to bear if some
medical incidents happen," Dr Lau said. "We simply don't understand the mainland
legal system there. The private hospital business takes a long time to get a
return, at least 10 or 15 years."

For the Union Hospital in Sha Tin, one of the city's 12 private hospitals, red
tape and a lack of mainland business know-how  have been hurdles to its plan to
open a hair implant centre in Guangzhou.

The hospital's medical director, Anthony Lee Kai-yiu,  said the centre was
expected to act as a window to  Hong Kong for potential mainland medical
tourists.

After more than a year, the plan is still on the drawing board. Last year, the
hospital's parent company, property developer Henderson Group, had a vacant
premises in Guangzhou for the centre but the hospital could not find a local
partner.

At the time, Cepa only allowed a Hong Kong operator to have a joint venture with
a mainland partner. The site later became a shopping centre.

Earlier this year, the hospital was in talks about the project with a Guangzhou
teaching hospital but  the plan was shelved, this time because of a reshuffle of
the hospital's leadership.

Now on its third attempt, the Union Hospital is working with a private health
care operator and has appointed a consultant to help it obtain a business
licence.

The consultant report said, however, that it would take the hospital at least 14
to 15 months to get a business licence for such a joint venture.

"We need to rent a premises first and leave it vacant for more than a year to
get the licence - it is part of the undesirable cost of running a business on
the mainland," Dr Lee said.

The hospital will also  look into proceeding with a wholly owned model instead
of a joint venture after the new Guangdong Cepa deal takes effect.

Dr Lee complained of an information blackout when it came to turning  the Cepa
agreement from words into reality.

"There have never been any briefings to Hong Kong service providers on how it
can be done.  It would be good if there was a designated office on the mainland
to help Hong Kong businesses to explore Cepa," he said.

Dr Lee said the biggest obstacle to opening a hospital on the mainland was a
lack of expertise.

"People are the key. Health care services are very labour intensive," he said.

"A hospital must have a good team of doctors, nurses, allied health and
laboratories staff. I don't think we can get such a team on the mainland to
provide the Hong Kong-style of care.

"Our name will be at stake if we open a new hospital on the mainland. If we
cannot provide good-quality care, our reputation in Hong Kong will be damaged as
well."

It has been a similar story for private orthopaedist Ko Wing-man  and his
teammates.

He and 13 others were the first batch of local practitioners to practise on the
mainland under Cepa. Since September 2005, they have practised  part-time at the
Clifford Hospital  in Panyu , Guangdong. Dr Ko and two other orthopaedists - St
Paul's Hospital medical superintendent David Fang Jin-sheng  and former Public
Doctors Association president Poon Tak-lun  -  also set up a shell company a few
years ago to explore opportunities to run a hospital on the mainland.

Dr Ko, also a former director of the Hospital Authority, which runs more than 40
public hospitals, is keen to provide management and clinical services to
mainland hospitals.

His idea is to get investors to build either a medium-sized hospital with 300 to
500 beds or to turn a mainland hospital into a Hong Kong-mainland joint venture.
A dozen Hong Kong doctors have expressed interest.

At one stage, Dr Ko's team had a potential investor for  a new hospital in
Beijing, but the investor changed his mind and switched to a hotel project.

"We understand that very few people are keen on health care services because the
risk is too high and the return is slow compared to a property or hotel
project," Dr Ko said.

The team's second plan, to buy a Shanghai hospital, was also aborted because of
a change in government leadership of that city.

Dr Ko said the latest Cepa arrangement with Guangdong was attractive to Hong
Kong doctors who wanted to promote family medicine.

"Family medicine is not popular on the mainland where patients all go to
hospitals for all kind of treatments, including minor ones," he said.

"It is a good chance for Hong Kong doctors to open clinics there to provide
primary services."

Another Hong Kong private doctor, who requested anonymity, agreed that Cepa
could improve the quality of medical care on the mainland by skills transfers in
management and clinical practices.

"If you go to mainland shopping malls, hotels, offices or restaurants, they are
basically the same as those you see in Hong Kong. But, once you walk into a
mainland hospital, you can immediately feel the big difference," he said.

"Patients there pay a few yuan registration fee and then have to pay for
expensive medicine. When we talk about Hong Kong and mainland integration,
health care institutions are among the last to go."

Life seems to be easier for Hong Kong dentists who practise on the mainland
because dental clinics are relatively easy, and cheaper, to start up.

Raymond Lee Kin-man,  a local dentist who has been practising in Beijing, said
the latest Cepa arrangement  was attractive.

A specialist in family dentistry who owns a group practice of more than 10
clinics in Hong Kong, he sat his licensing exam in Beijing in 2005 and was able
to practise in the capital.

"Some corporate clients have asked us if we also have branches on the mainland
to treat their staff working there, so we can see the potential market there for
Hong Kong dentists," he said.

He said Cepa was better for group practices than solo practitioners.

"To a well established dentist in Central, for example, business is good and
there is not much incentive for him to uproot both his business and family in
Hong Kong and move to the north," he said. "But, for a group, we can provide
management services and skills transfer to local dentists."

He said that in order to make a dental practice "financially sustainable" on the
mainland, it had to perform high-skill services such as teeth implants and
cosmetic services like whitening.

"Local mainland patients have been enjoying cheap services for minor procedures
from local clinics, they may not be willing to pay much more for a Hong
Kong-style service," he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Credit: David Wong; Anthony Lee says Union Hospital has been trying for
over a year to set up a hair implant clinic in Guangzhou but its efforts have
been frustrated by bureaucratic red tape and a lack of mainland business
know-how.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 South China Morning Post Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


