                              481 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                     News-Journal (Daytona Beach, Florida)

                             March 25, 2011 Friday
                               N-j Final Edition

Hospital attorney quits with high bills

BYLINE: ANNE GEGGIS, ANNE GEGGIS - STAFF WRITER

SECTION: SECTION A; Pg. 1A

LENGTH: 817  words

DATELINE: NEW SMYRNA BEACH


NEW SMYRNA BEACH -- The lawyer who led the Southeast Volusia Hospital District
board into a Sunshine Law violation that has cost taxpayers hundreds of
thousands in legal bills has quit working for the district.

At least for now.

Jim Heekin, the hospital board's attorney for nearly 20 years, does not want to
represent the district as it separates the Bert Fish Medical Center from its
former merger partner, nonprofit Adventist Health System, attorney Darryl
Bloodworth told the board Wednesday night. "I checked with the Lowndes firm,"
Bloodworth said about the Orlando law firm where Heekin works. "They don't
believe they can be of service in the unwinding."

Bob Weiss, the district board's vice chairman, said Thursday, "I would think
effectively from now on, at least through the unwinding, he (Heekin) is not our
attorney."

Heekin and his firm have earned more than $700,000 in legal fees from the
merger. He did not attend Wednesday's board meeting and could not be reached for
comment.

During a four-day trial last month, Heekin said he erroneously told hospital
board members the public could be kept out of meetings where the board discussed
leasing and selling the New Smyrna Beach public hospital.

The resulting lease/sale agreement that was finalized June 30 prompted a lawsuit
from the Bert Fish Foundation, a philanthropic organization that gave the
hospital to the district in 1966. Last month, Judge Richard Graham tossed out
the merger, saying the Sunshine violations committed by the board were not cured
by a second round of public meetings to select Adventist Health.

The ruling said Heekin was among a group of people that had "huge personal
financial stakes" in the outcome as they set up the public do-over.

In throwing out the eight-month merger, Graham asked Adventist Health, the
district and the foundation to present a plan to restore the hospital to its
government-run status.

Heekin has told the board that it could file a malpractice claim against his
insurance company for the bad advice. On Wednesday night, the board briefly
discussed filing such a claim against Heekin's firm to recover some of the legal
expenses that resulted from his advice. But no vote was taken.

Property tax money from Edgewater, New Smyrna Beach, Oak Hill and a portion of
Port Orange has so far paid out about $820,000 in merger-related legal bills to
Heekin and another Orlando law firm -- only for the public hospital to land back
at square1 .

In addition, Judge Graham likely will order the district to pay some of the
foundation attorneys' fees.

More urgent than the malpractice claim, however, is unwinding Bert Fish Medical
Center from Adventist Health, said Bloodworth, who represented the board in the
lawsuit. He introduced the board to Kelly Sullivan, a health care attorney with
his firm, Dean Mead, who is available to represent them. The board, with only
four of the seven members present Wednesday, took no action, however.

The board was also introduced to two candidates who could manage the unwinding
of Bert Fish from Adventist Health: James Hopwood of Focus Management Group,
based in Tampa, and Paul Metts, an independent health care consultant who has
been an executive at Shands HealthCare at the University of Florida.

Jon Kaney, a lawyer with Cobb Cole who represented the foundation in the suit,
said he was concerned that Metts was brought to Wednesday's meeting after a
phone call from Heekin.

This should be an arm's-length deal," he said. "Because someone knows someone
doesn't mean they should be the one you choose."

Further discussion revealed that Metts also once worked as the boss of Bob
Williams, Bert Fish's former CEO and current interim director of the district.
Judge Graham's order also singled out Williams as having a huge financial
interest in Bert Fish's merger because Williams received a severance package
with the deal.

Bill McGee, a board member from Oak Hill, said Heekin called Metts at his
request. He took umbrage at the notion that previous involvement with district
officials, past and present, should disqualify anyone from serving.

We've had a great experience with Mr. Metts," McGee said. "We did make
independent decisions."

Board member Tom DeSimone, however, suggested that a request for a proposal be
put out for consultants to apply for the job.

To make it as open and transparent as possible," he said.

But Dr. Tom Ownby, chairman of the board, said the board had to move quickly:
"Where are we going to put that, in a health care magazine?"

Sullivan, the district's possible new attorney, said she took it upon herself to
post a request on a health care network, looking for a consultant to help with
the unwinding, and so far garnered three other candidates.

They can be here at your next meeting on Tuesday," she said.

The board agreed to talk to those candidates at its Tuesday meeting, scheduled
for 5 p.m. at the New Smyrna Beach Public Library.

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DBNJ

                Copyright 2011 ProQuest Information and Learning
                              All Rights Reserved
                               ProQuest SuperText
                    Copyright 2011 News-Journal Corporation


