                              479 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Advertiser

                             July 21, 1988 Thursday

Hospitals' battle for services 'may become test case'

BYLINE: JIM MCCARTER

LENGTH: 345 words


The right of three SA country hospitals to continue providing acute medical
services could become a test case on a State and national basis, a farmers'
representative on the Hospital Action Committee, Ms Jeannie Ferris, said
yesterday.

Ms Ferris, an executive officer of the United Farmers and Stockowners of SA,
told the annual UFS State conference that the committee had decided on Monday it
was prepared to fight the case for the Tailem Bend, Laura and Blyth hospitals
through the courts.

"We have a very strong case, according to the Queen's Counsel we have retained,"
she said.

The conference was told almost $16,000 had already been contributed to a
fighting fund established to help finance the committee's legal costs.

All three hospitals are continuing to operate as acute treatment centres in
defiance of the SA Health Commission's ruling that they should become nursing
homes.

Ms Ferris said their decision to do so was based on advice from a QC that they
could continue to operate in law as country hospitals.

"In other words they are operating with legal protection for patients," she
said.

The three were playing a tactical waiting game despite plans by the SA Health
Commission to close their acute care beds.

"Nothing will happen until the administrators of the three hospitals ask for
cheques to be paid for services provided in the past three weeks," she said.

That was likely to be in the next week or so.

Most of that money would normally go to general practitioners in the towns
concerned, who were highly supportive of the hospital boards in each case.

Ms Ferris said it was unfortunate some larger country hospitals had been
prevailed upon by the Health Commission to not support the case for Laura, Blyth
and Tailem Bend as strongly as they might otherwise have.

"They might stand to gain what the smaller hospitals stand to lose," she said.

Ms Ferris said the action committee would meet again tomorrow with its legal
counsel to decide further plans relating to the legal position of the three
hospitals.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: ADV

                   Copyright 1988 Nationwide News Pty Limited


