                              482 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                 Hampstead and Highgate Express (Ham and High)

                            April 25, 2013 Thursday

Highgate motorcyclist paralysed after crash wins more than £4million in damages

SECTION: ROP

LENGTH: 425 words


A Highgate motorcyclist has won £4.6million in damages after being left
paralysed following a crash in St Albans.

A Highgate motorcyclist has won £4.6million in damages after being left
paralysed following a crash.



Kevin Daniel, 32, was hit by a truck on the North Orbital Road in St Albans
after colliding with a car in 2006.

On Monday, a judge at the High Court approved a settlement after lawyers for Mr
Daniel launched legal action against the driver's insurers and West
Hertfordshire Hospitals NHS Trust, which runs Watford General Hospital.

Mr Daniel said his treatment at Watford General Hospital was negligent and
contributed to his life-changing injuries. He has paralysis of his lower body.

He will receive £4.58million in damages as well as £700,000 towards his legal
costs from the trust and the insurers.

However, there was no admission of liability by the trust.

Mr Daniel lost control of the Yamaha motorbike when it collided with a Peugeot
207. The bike then went into the back of a large goods vehicle.

Mr Daniel's lawyers said he did not have a "complete spinal cord injury" when he
arrived at the hospital. Owing to negligent treatment, his condition
deteriorated, they said. He has now returned to his native South Africa.

Kevin Daniel, 32, was hit by a truck on the North Orbital Road near the M1 after
colliding with a car on October 5, 2006.

On Monday, a judge at London's High Court approved a settlement after lawyers
acting on Mr Daniel's behalf launched legal action against the driver's insurers
and West Hertfordshire Hospitals NHS Trust, which runs Watford General Hospital.


Mr Daniel, originally from South Africa, claimed his treatment at Watford
General Hospital was negligent and contributed to his life-changing injuries,
which resulted in paralysis of his lower body.

The 32-year-old was awarded £4.58million in damages, as well as £700,000 towards
his legal costs, from the trust and the insurers.

However, there was no admission of liability by the trust.

Mr Daniel, who was 26 at the time of the accident, lost control of the Yamaha R6
motorbike as he was driving on the A405 when it collided with a blue Peugeot
207.

The bike ploughed on into the back of a large goods vehicle.

Mr Daniel's lawyers said he did not have a "complete spinal cord injury" when he
arrived at the hospital.

But owing to negligent treatment his condition deteriorated by the time of a
later CT scan.

Mr Daniel, who was living in Highgate at the time of the crash but has since
returned to South Africa, requires constant care as a result of his injuries.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HHE


                      Copyright 2013 Archant Regional Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


