                              483 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                          Pretoria News (South Africa)

                            January 07, 2013 Monday
                                   E1 Edition

Lack of supplies exposes hospital to legal action, doctor warns

BYLINE:  Lungelo Mkamba

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 309 words


DOCTORS at Addington Hospital are being forced to practise substandard medicine,
exposing themselves and the hospital to possible legal action from patients and
their aggrieved families. This is according to a desperate letter written by the
head of the hospital's surgery unit, Dr Masee Naidoo, to its acting chief
executive, Thabisile Sakyi.

In the letter Naidoo asks why, six months after the KwaZulu-Natal Department of
Health appointed a task team to look into Addington's problems, "we are still
scavenging for needles, swabs and syringes".

He wrote that doctors were working without "the necessary essential medical
items" and delays in getting patients to theatre were resulting in "avoidable
complications" and "deterioration of patients' health conditions".

Among the issues he raised were:

l Operating theatres were too hot, making sepsis a problem.

l Limited theatre availability led to delays.

l Doctors treating patients without the necessary essential medical items.

l Doctors exposing themselves to potential legal action.

In the letter he pleaded with the hospital's management to ensure that all its
medical personnel were indemnified from any legal action that might arise.

He said the family of one of his patients were advised to "institute action
against me as I was mismanaging their relative. I wish to point out that this
will not be tolerated".

In October the struggling hospital's new chief executive, Dr Kobus Kotze, quit
after just three days. Last month the Health Department confirmed some doctors
and pharmacy staff had been suspended, on full salary, pending an investigation.

Naidoo said he had written to the provincial Health Department's head, Sibongile
Zungu, expressing "displeasure" at her laying "the blame at our feet when we
simply do not have the necessary tools to work with". The department said it
would only comment today.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: PN


                Copyright 2013 Independent Newspapers Pty (Ltd)
                              All Rights Reserved


