                              487 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                              Mirror Publications

                            March 23, 2017 Thursday
                                  Pune Mirror

LMO cracks down on hospitals for flouting MRP rules

SECTION: CIVIC

LENGTH: 491 words


By Vicky Pathare

Special drive found that equipment sold by hospitals did not have printed price
and manufacturing details

For all those who bemoan the massive costs incurred for specialised medical
care, here's some welcome news.

The Legal Metrology Organisation (LMO), a state government body that aims to
protect consumer rights, recently initiated a crackdown against 15 leading
hospitals in the city for overcharging on MRP and violating packaging rules of
surgical equipment, surgical goods and other products.

The special drive was conducted from February 18 to March 20 on the orders of
additional directorgeneral and controller of legal metrology, Amitabh Gupta.

Among the hospitals that faced action are Cloud Nine, Hardikar Hospital, Oyster
and Pearl Hospital (all in Shivajinagar), Sahyadri Speciality Hospital in
Yerwada and Galaxy Care Hospital on Karve Road.

The LMO has also booked manufacturers and distributers for violating norms.

During the drive, the equipment and commodities at the hospitals were found to
have MRP prices either missing or smudged. Several other mandatory details --
legal declaration by the manufacturer, consumer number, import or manufacturing
date, etc., were also absent.

"Surgical goods, orthopaedic equipment and dietary supplements were found in
violation of the rules of the Legal Metrological Act 2009 and Packaged
Commodities Rule 2011. Commodities sold through the hospital -- survival
collars, surgical sutures, disposable syringes, liquid immunity fire, etc., --
were found violating the norms, too," said D LKove, deputy controller, LMO, Pune
region.

"Officials also found a huge difference in the MRP that was printed on the
package, that which was charged by the supplier and the final price at which it
was being sold to the patients," he added.

D G Mahajan, assistant controller, LMO, Pune district, confirmed that multiple
violations were found when LMO officers visited the hospitals. "The products are
sold by the hospitals through drug stores owned by the management. The
declarations on the products are mandatory," he said.

On their part, the hospitals, too, admitted that discrepancies were found in
both price and packaging.

Dr Sharad Hardikar, founder of Hardikar Hospital, said, "Such cases occur with
orthopaedic equipment from local manufacturers. There is no printed MRP or
manufacturing date. But, if the product is from a branded manufacturer, all the
norms are followed. "We have spoken to the respective department to look into
the issue and stop purchasing equipment and other commodities which are not as
per packaging rules."

Dr Vijay Tomar, who heads Cloud Nine hospital's Pune unit, said, "The products
which were not as per the packaging rules were instructed to be removed with
immediate effect. We have also informed other branches of Cloud Nine about the
rules and guidelines that should be followed before selling or purchasing a
commodity."

For Reprint Rights: timescontent.com

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2017 Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


