                              494 of 993 DOCUMENTS


              The Times and Democrat (Orangeburg, South Carolina)

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                           January 24, 2007 Wednesday

Hospital says it's willing to back off risky investments

BYLINE: Gene Zaleski, The Times and Democrat, Orangeburg, S.C.

SECTION: BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL NEWS

LENGTH: 1053 words


Jan. 24--The Regional Medical Center Board of Trustees says it's willing to
change the investment strategy that some Orangeburg County Council members
consider risky. But it also wants council to approve a $22 million borrowing
plan for the hospital.

In addition, the hospital is asking County Council to back down from its public
criticism of the hospital, saying it could harm the hospital in the bond market.

A Jan. 13 letter to County Council Chairman Harry Wimberly released Tuesday
notes that the controversy "will make the (bond) issue less attractive to the
market and, therefore, more expensive."

The hospital board, in the letter signed by then-board Chairman Willie B. Owens,
says the "constant controversy between county council and the hospital is also a
negative for our community."

"It is a negative for county council and for the hospital," the letter
concluded. "We again state our desire to work with county council in building
the county rather than fighting over issues that tear down the community.

"We approach this issue in the spirit of compromise in an attempt to move
forward together."

The hospital board and Orangeburg County Council have been involved in a number
of controversies, ranging from ambulance funding to whether the hospital should
be sold or leased. County Council members have also questioned the formation of
the Edisto Health Foundation Inc., which the hospital created as a separate
entity so it can make investments it otherwise wouldn't be allowed to make.

The Regional Medical Center is owned by Orangeburg and Calhoun counties.

Wimberly said Wednesday any negative impact of the controversy "will be created
by RMC."

"We are only trying to do the right thing," he said.

Calhoun County Council Chairman David Summers sided with the hospital, noting
that the controversy cannot help the hospital.

"I don't understand," Summers said. "We put out one fire over there and they
start up another one to put out. It is time for it to be stopped. I would like
them to sit down and talk to us about where the problems are.

We don't see the problems they seeing going on in Orangeburg."

In the letter, Owens defended the formation and the fiscal prudence of the
Edisto Health Foundation Inc. The foundation has a separate board, including
some hospital board members.

The hospital board offered its willingness to "modify the investment policy set
for the Foundation" in a "spirit of resolving differences" between the legal
opinions of the county and the hospital.

Orangeburg county attorney D'Anne Haydel has publicly questioned why the
creation of the foundation in 2006 and its investments were not better
publicized.

Calhoun County Council has not questioned the hospital board's decisions related
to the foundation.

The letter states the hospital would consider modifying the investment policy so
that it would "comply with investments required for a governmental entity."

"In making such a change, we presume that the county would then look favorably
on approval of the upcoming bond issue by RMC," the letter states, adding that
any change would require 30 days to 45 days to update the hospital's investment
portfolio.

The hospital is still waiting for Orangeburg County Council approval to enter
the bond market to borrow $22 million. About half of the money would go toward
reimbursement of prior expenses and the other half toward future projects.
Calhoun County Council has approved the borrowing.

"The hospital would like to have an understanding with the county that the
investment policy be modified if the lawyers for each side could agree," the
letter continued.

The letter does, however, add that the "Board views the Foundation and the use
of equity investments as a financial positive for the hospital and is reluctant
to modify its current situation based on legal opinions."

The board at its Tuesday meeting requested council to respond in writing to the
letter.

Under the foundation, the hospital can make a wider range of investments at a
higher return than it could otherwise.

The hospital makes a 1 percent to 4 percent return on its investments.

The EHF was given $25.4 million of the hospital's money to invest, with about
$4.6 million of the investment put in hedge funds or higher-risk funds that
would bring larger returns.

Since its investment June 30, 2006, the foundation has grown $2.8 million to
$28.3 million. The foundation has yielded returns of about 20 percent.

Both Orangeburg County Council and its hospital board appointees met in closed
session to discuss the foundation Jan. 11. The entire Jan. 11 meeting was held
in executive session and details were not provided after the meeting.

Wimberly said Wednesday he had no problem with the formation of the foundation
but with the prudence of the investment.

"I want the investments to be made in accordance with what a public entity can
do with the investment. I want the investment made in accord with ... a
governmental entity," Wimberly said.

Summers said Calhoun County Council is not concerned about the foundation or its
investments.

"They have had legal briefings from a couple of well-respected law firms in
South Carolina," he said "There is nothing wrong with the bond issuance they
have."

Summers added the investment structure is well in line with other similar
institutions.

"Anything can be too risky," he said. "You can get out on the highway to drive
home and it is risky. They (the hospital board) feel it is not a bad investment
and I tend to go along with their legal staff."

Summers said government agencies "can't get but so much" on investments and that
"it is all well and good to make a little money off the money."

Owens, who has since resigned from the hospital board because he is running for
Orangeburg County Council, said the foundation was formed "upon what the board
considers to be sound legal advice" and for the "purpose of supporting RMC and
its mission."

To see more of The Times and Democrat, or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.timesanddemocrat.com. Copyright (c) 2007, The Times and Democrat,
Orangeburg, S.C. Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News. For reprints,
email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or 847-635-6550, send
a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group Inc., 1247 Milwaukee
Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20070124-GG-HOSPITAL-INVEST-20070124

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: GG


                     Copyright 2007 The Times and Democrat


