                              496 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            January 31 1989, Tuesday

A teaching hospital to cure lawyers' ills; Legal Brief

BYLINE: TONY SMITH, QC, and NADIA SHARIFF

SECTION: Issue 63305.

LENGTH: 748 words


Standards must be improved, write Tony Smith, QC, and Nadia Shariff

At the moment lawyers are in the news. The Lord Chancellor, Lord Mackay of
Clashfern, last week produced far-reaching Green Papers with barely three months
for the legal profession to consider the proposals. They recommend the breakdown
of restrictive practices, extending rights of audience for solicitors into the
higher


courts and the evolution of

multi-disciplined professional practices.

What is likely to happen? This much is clear: the Government and, we suspect,
the public, will expect fundamental change. Very soon lawyers will have to face
up to a future in which they will be expected to work ever more closely with
organizations that provide the public, for fee or for free, with more than one
professional discipline. And they will also have to work more closely with each
other.

What matters? Not, we think, the preservation of traditional stamping grounds
which may have little but history to commend them. The things that matter in any
profession are standards; the honest, high-quality preparation and presentation
of the real merits of a case in court; the best legitimate advancement of an
argument that the client has not the skill to present for himself; trust;
integrity; a voice to be relied on by litigant and judge alike. We have,
frankly, too little of these things on both sides of the legal profession. Its
standards need to improve; and the litigating public deserves a better service
than it gets, and better value for its money.

It is a question of education in the law as much as organization in the law. We
believe both to be deficient. As long ago as 1971, the Ormrod Committee spoke of
'the traditional antithesis between 'academic' and 'vocational', 'theoretical'
and 'practical' which has divided the universities from the profession in the
past (and) must be eliminated by adjustment on both sides'.

Ormrod did not envisage a professional environment in which teaching would
occur, to enhance a student's understanding of practical skills applicable to
that profession.

Imagine now a teaching hospital for lawyers. It occupies a single building. In
it there are three independent elements: a firm of solicitors, a set of
barristers' chambers, and a department through which litigants in those parts of
the legal system not covered by legal aid can be represented in such cases
without fee. To this hospital will come students studying for law degrees. They
will have access, for the purposes of tuition, to the solicitors and the
barristers.

Closely supervised by the practitioners in the hospital and their academic
teaching staff, they will interview clients attending the free representation
department and, eventually, represent them. Ultimately, a complete legal service
for all sections of the public, fee-paying, legally aided and freely
represented, will be provided by the hospital; and students will receive what is
at present not available anywhere: a practical vocational education stemming
from actual participation in, and supervision by, the profession they intend to
enter.

All the essential embryonic features of such a concept have come into existence,
and been demonstrated to be workable, over the past two years in the Birmingham
Free Representation Scheme.

But while the Birmingham scheme has achieved closer co-operation between
barristers and academics, it still has not brought about closer co-operation
between both sides of the legal profession within a teaching setting or within
one organization. To create a teaching hospital in the way now proposed does not
amount to anything so radical or revolutionary that it would undermine the two
legal professions as they exist today.

Whatever the professions decide to do, some change is inevitable. If such
concepts as the teaching hospital are encouraged, they will not be harmful; and
the teaching idea will at the very least provide a much-needed free service to
the public. Legal aid cannot be provided in all areas of the law; and
organizations such as the Birmingham scheme will have to expand.

The teaching hospital will do more. It will encourage students embarking on a
career in the legal profession to work in environments where co-operation
between professionals is essential and that, necessarily, in the pursuit of
excellence and the highest professional standards.

The authors are founders of the Birmingham Free Representation Scheme.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1989 Times Newspapers Limited


