                              491 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                 March 9, 2004

Why can't we get legal aid to find out how our son died?;EXCLUSIVE: Death probe
blow for parents of boy who died after suspected hospital blunder

SECTION: Pg. 17

LENGTH: 423 words


THE parents of a disabled boy who died following a suspected hospital blunder
are devastated after legal aid for a fatal accident inquiry was refused.

Simon Dolan, 17, died three days after having a feeding tube refitted to his
stomach at Yorkhill Sick Kids' Hospital in Glasgow.

His parents Joe, 51, and Karen, 44, believe Simon died because the tube was
wrongly inserted, and they have fought for a fatal accident inquiry to prove
their case.

However, with the inquiry just two weeks away, they have been told they won't
get the legal aid they desperately need, as they can't afford a solicitor.

Unemployed Joe, from Knightswood, said: "I feel sick. I've lost my son and every
time I try to approach one of the authorities for help I feel as though I get
punched in the face.

"I'm not able to represent myself in court because it's such a complicated case.
We need representation.

"We have fought long and hard for this inquiry because we want to prove our son
died due to negligence. We don't want another family having to go through what
we did."

The Scottish Legal Aid Board refused the Dolans' application.

A spokeswoman said it was the job of the duty procurator-fiscal to challenge the
circumstances of the case during a fatal accident inquiry.

She added: "Legal aid applications to fund separate legal representation for the
family in a fatal accident inquiry are only ever approved in exceptional
circumstances, such as deaths in police custody."

However, Cameron Fyfe, of Ross Harper solicitors, said he would be appealing
against the decision on behalf of the Dolans.

Mr Fyfe said: "I'm absolutely baffled by this decision. I can't think of a case
more deserving of legal aid.

"The medical evidence is very complex and the family need a solicitor."

The couple insist Simon's death was caused when his feeding tube was inserted
into his gut cavity instead of his stomach.

Karen was a full-time carer for Simon, who was born with the rare Cornelia de
Lange syndrome, which left him physically and mentally disabled. She said:
"Simon was the light of

our lives and he loved life."

When Simon was 15 he had a gastronomy tube inserted into his stomach that
allowed him to feed without choking.

He died after his feeding tube came loose and his family took him to Yorkhill to
have it refitted.

Simon's death certificate blamed a "mal-located gastronomy tube". It said the
underlying cause of the mal-location was "uncertain, pending results of further
investigations".

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2004

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: DEVASTATED: Joe and Karen feel they've been 'punched in the face' in
bid to find why Simon died

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2004 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited


