                              488 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                              The Express Tribune

                           September 12, 2014 Friday

For women patients: 90 female MLOs to join government hospitals

LENGTH: 320  words


Health authorities informed the Sindh High Court on Friday that appointment of
90 female medico-legal officers (MLO) in public sector hospitals has been
recommended to conduct medico-legal procedures on female patients.

The deputy health secretary stated this before a division bench, headed by
Justice Shafi Siddiqui, which was hearing a petition against alleged
discrepancies and malpractice by male medico-legal officers at public hospitals.

The secretary said the Sindh Public Service Commission has recommended 90 female
candidates to the chief minister for appointment as medico-legal officers at
government health facilities. After successful candidates accept their offer
letters, their training will begin at medical university hospitals so that they
can discharge their duties at the hospitals," the deputy secretary added.

Unhappy with progress

The bench remarked that earlier orders passed on December 18, 2012, and January
30, 2013, regarding discrepancies and malpractice are very clear. However, they
observed, it appears that the grievances referred to in the petition and the
said orders have yet to be redressed and have been taken lightly. Therefore, the
judges issued a notice to the health secretary to intervene and hold meetings
with all the stakeholders to resolve the issue as soon as possible.

The health secretary was directed to submit a compliance report within four
weeks and cautioned that an order would be passed against the relevant officers
in case of non-compliance.

The petitioner, a non-governmental organisation called Madadgar, had alleged
male MLOs of violating mandatory procedures on victims and subjecting women and
children to sexual abuse at public health facilities. The court was pleaded to
direct the authorities to bring an end to such violations and also establish
forensic science laboratories in each provincial district.

Published in The Express Tribune, September 13th, 2014.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2014 The Express Tribune
                              All Rights Reserved


