                              495 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                              May 7, 1985 Tuesday

Involuntary psychiatric patients   Right to legal counsel is being denied

BYLINE: DOROTHY LIPOVENKO; GAM

LENGTH: 604 words


By  DOROTHY LIPOVENKO
 Involuntary psychiatric patients in Ontario hospitals are being deprived
 of their right to legal counsel - to which they became entitled more than
 a year ago - because of bureaucratic wrangling at Queen's Park.

The Ministries of Health and the Attorney-General and Ontario's Legal
 Aid Plan have not resolved the issue of how to comply with legislation
 intended to provide legal assistance for involuntary psychiatric patients.

The three-way dispute has dragged on since March, 1984, when changes to
 the province's Mental Health Act required hospitals to notify legal aid
 directors of all psychiatric patients detained against their will.

The legislation was changed to improve the rights of involuntary
 patients, particularly their access to a lawyer and appeal of their
 committal to a regional review board.

But, instead of processing the notices of committal and making lawyers
 available to patients, legal aid was instructed to do nothing. Opposition
 MPPs charged in the Legislature last year that legal aid throws the
 certificates into the garbage or files them away.

Few hospitals provide duty counsel for involuntary patients.
    "It's an unacceptable situation," Tracy Tremayne-Lloyd, chairman of the
 Ontario health law section of the Canadian Bar Association, said in an
 interview. Ms Tremayne- Lloyd's section recently passed a resolution
 calling on Queen's Park to take "immediate steps" to provide some way to
 ensure adequate legal advice for involuntary patients.

Between April 1, 1984, and last March 31, there were more than 10,500
 admissions to psychiatric and general hospitals - about one- fifth of all
 admissions in the province for psychiatric care.
    "Something is very badly needed, because most involuntary patients are
 not aware of their rights," Carla McKague, a Toronto mental health lawyer,
 said in an interview yesterday. "I've had two situations in which an
 involuntary patient was refused permission to contact legal aid and
 another was refused the application form to appeal the commital."
    Part of the delay in deciding who will pick up the tab for the lawyers
 - or whether a cheaper solution can be found - is being blamed on Bruce
 Noble, chairman of the legal aid committee of the Law Society of Upper
 Canada.

Initially, Mr. Noble took the position that the law did not specify
 what the area directors were to do when they received the commital notice.

In a letter to legal aid area directors, Mr. Noble said "my real
 concern is that I don't wish the Legal Aid Plan to become involved in
 assuming any initiating responsibilities under the Mental Health Act."
    The area directors are "not under any obligation to do anything upon
 receipt of the certificate or notice (of commital) . . . as I read the
 legislation, the forwarding of the notice is simply to forewarn the area
 director" that an involuntary patient might apply for legal representation
 if they appeal the commital.

Neither Mr. Noble nor Doug Ewart, who is responsible for Legal Aid for
 the Attorney-General, could be reached for comment. Debi Mauro, an
 official with the mental health division of the Health Ministry, said
 yesterday that a task force with representatives from the Attorney-
 General's office, the Ministry of Health and Ontario's Legal Aid Plan, has
 been dealing with the issue but she refused to elaborate on its proposals.

The Government is considering expanding its psychiatric patient
 advocate program for patients admitted involuntarily to psychiatric wards
 of general hospitals. The Health Ministry may also make about $200,000
 available to legal aid to hire lawyers for involuntary patients.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1985 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


