                              490 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                                 Hobart Mercury

                            March 10, 1988 Thursday

LENGTH: 298 words


Sterility loophole fertile ground for suing MELBOURNE. - Australian hospitals
are risking big law suits from patients whose sterilisation operations fail,
according to a legal expert.

The hospitals have been warned they are leaving themselves open to costly
litigation because of a legal loophole in the badly worded consent forms they
ask their patients to sign.

Mr John Snowdon, from the Melbourne legal firm Phillips Fox, said that in failed
sterilisation cases, "Murphy's law generally operates".

"Based on current trends, a successful claim after an unwanted pregnancy could
cost a doctor or hospital a verdict in the order of $50,000 plus legal costs,"
he said.

His comments, published in the industry magazine Hospital and Healthcare, follow
a well-publicised Melbourne case last month.

A woman who had a tubal ligation sued her gynaecologist after giving birth to
twins. However, the Supreme Court judge concluded there was no evidence of
negligence and said the doctor had no duty to warn the woman there was a small
risk of the operation failing.

Mr Snowdon said there remained a significant number of Australian hospitals
using "outdated, inappropriate and quite dangerous consent forms for
sterilisation procedures".

This type of form included a statement signed by the patient to the effect that
"I have been advised that the procedure which I will undergo will produce
permanent sterility".

Mr Snowdon said such a form could allow a court to conclude that the hospital
had entered a contract unconditionally to produce permanent sterility. If this
was the case, the aggrieved patient might not be required to prove negligence.

The mere fact that the operation did not produce permanent sterility could
result in a damages award for breach of contract.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: MER

                   Copyright 1988 Nationwide News Pty Limited


