                              499 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                            Legal Monitor Worldwide

                             July 18, 2013 Thursday

NC hospital company breaks information law

LENGTH: 259  words


A Charlotte attorney has sued Carolinas HealthCare System, saying it has
violated the state public records law.
Charlotte attorney Gary Jackson has accused the operator of Carolinas Medical
Center and more than 30 other hospitals of keeping secret the terms of a legal
settlement, The Charlotte Observer (http://bit.ly/12JI4aN) reported.


Carolinas HealthCare won a confidential settlement in a complaint it filed
against the former Wachovia Bank.
The settlement followed a 2008 lawsuit in which Carolinas HealthCare accused the
bank of breaking a promise to put the hospital system's money in low-risk
investments.
One of the Wachovia investments plummeted from about $15 million to less than $2
million, the Carolinas HealthCare lawsuit said.
The hospital system's board of directors went into closed session in 2011 to
approve the settlement, Jackson's lawsuit says, and the hospital system refused
to provide a copy of the agreement.
Jackson says the system has no legal right to keep the settlement confidential.
He says the public deserves more information than it is getting.
The hospital system says the state public records law does not require it to
release such settlements.
Mark Merritt, a lawyer representing the hospital system, said defendants tend to
be willing to pay more in settlements with confidentiality clauses.
Superior Court Judge Robert Sumner is considering the hospital's request to
dismiss Jackson's lawsuit.
Merritt said the public records law is unclear.
"I describe it as a Swiss cheese," Merritt said. "It's got a lot of holes in
it."

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1258


                     Copyright 2013 Legal Monitor Worldwide
              Provided by Syndigate.info, an Albawaba.com company
                              All Rights Reserved
