                              52 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                         The Age (Melbourne, Australia)

                          September 16, 1998 Wednesday
                                  Late Edition

Hospital funding bill sparks anger

BYLINE: SANDRA McKAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 478 words


A group of Essendon residents seeking compensation for the closure of their
local hospital - which they helped establish 20 years ago with private donations
- could be thwarted by a new state law.

The Opposition claimed yesterday that a bill now before Parliament would prevent
benefactors of hospitals seeking compensation in the event of closure or a
merger.

According to legal advice obtained by the Opposition, tens of millions of
dollars tied up in individual hospital trusts and bequests could be handed over
to "successor" bodies in the event of amalgamation or closure.

Labor's health spokesman, Mr John Thwaites, said this could mean donations
intended for local health services could be swallowed by health networks and
used elsewhere.

He said the specific purpose of the Health Services (Further Amendment) Bill was
to stop residents suing the Government over the imminent closure of Essendon
Hospital. But he said it had a much broader implication, and could be used to
redistribute millions of dollars donated to local hospitals.

This was strongly denied by the Health Minister, Mr Rob Knowles, yesterday, who
said the purpose of the bill was to allow a $1 million-plus bequest to Maffra's
hospital to continue now that it has merged with a new health service in Sale.

Although the bill does not refer to Maffra, Mr Knowles said the intention was to
"make sure bequests continue to be honored even though health service structures
will change from time to time".

Mr Knowles refused to comment on the Opposition's legal advice, but denied it
had anything to do with thwarting potential legal action over the closure of
Essendon Hospital later this year.

Essendon residents, who donated nearly $700,000 to build the hospital in 1978,
the Moonee Valley Council, which donated $50,000, and the Essendon Hospital
Futures Committee are seeking compensation now the hospital is being closed.

Their possible legal action was resting on a 1991 Supreme Court decision over
the merger of Royal Melbourne and Essendon hospitals, which found that monies
donated specifically to help build a hospital could be recovered if a hospital
was shut down or amalgamated.

But the legal advice from Holding Redlich solicitors obtained by Mr Thwaites
suggests residents stand little chance of compensation if Mr Knowles' bill is
passed.

"In our view, the proposed Act creates a legislative scheme which is clearly
designed to prevent members or bodies within the community who have made
donations to a charitable trust ... from seeking any relief or remedy in the
courts to recover ... their funds following the closure, amalgamation, or
aggregation of the former body to which the trust applied," the lawyers found.

A spokeswoman for Mr Knowles said money that would have been spent maintaining
Essendon hospital would be spent on a new hospital in Broadmeadows, to be
officially opened today.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 1998 The Age Company Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


