                              56 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                                The Toronto Star

                          November 8, 1993, Monday, AM

Conflict charges dog Barrie legal aid

BYLINE: By Darcy Henton TORONTO STAR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. A9

LENGTH: 356 words


   A Barrie legal aid director who replaced a previous director accused of
conflict of interest now faces a similar allegation.

A patient at the Oak Ridge division of Penetanguishene Mental Health Centre, who
is seeking to sue the maximum-security hospital, has complained that Ramona
Wildman may not be able to assess fairly his requests for legal aid.

Gerald Vaughan said his first request for funding to obtain a legal opinion on a
complaint against the hospital was denied by Wildman, chair of a hospital
steering committee established seven years ago.

He said Wildman, a Barrie lawyer who is also the former chairperson of a
community advisory committee that met regularly with hospital officials, reviews
all funding requests from Oak Ridge patients.

Vaughan has complained to the provincial director of legal aid, to Premier Bob
Rae and to eight MPPs about the province's policy of appointing individuals to
more than one government position.

"I question whether we have a government policy on conflict of interest, and, if
so, whether it is being properly applied."

The previous director, Douglas Haig, was accused earlier this year of being in
conflict because he also sat on the Criminal Code Advisory Board, which decides
when to release patients found not guilty of crimes by reason of insanity.

A patient complained that Haig appeared to be in a position to deny funding for
patient appeals of board decisions.

Haig retired following an investigation by Legal Aid, but provincial Legal Aid
director Bob Holden said he was satisfied that procedures set out by his office
prevented any conflicts from arising.

Wildman said she was chosen for the job largely because of her work as an
advocate for patients at the Penetanguishene hospital.

She said she would be reluctant to resign as chairperson of the steering
committee, even though it hasn't met for three years, because it can continue to
lobby of behalf of patients for improvements to the hospital.

Wildman said she began personally reviewing all the Oak Ridge applications as a
result of the allegations of conflict against Haig.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 1993 Toronto Star Newspapers, Ltd.


