                              57 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                               Irish Independent

                            December 14, 2007 Friday

Legal wrangle is headache for developers

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 423 words


Eilish O'Regan Health Correspondent

THE selection of successful bidders to build private hospitals on the site of
public hospitals was announced with fanfare in late summer after much debate
about the controversial plan.

The proposal had become an election issue with Opposition parties claiming it
would just re-inforce our two tier health system with deluxe facilities next to
modest public hospitals.

The successful bidders to build the hospital on Beaumont was the Beacon Group
which was already behind the Beacon Hospital in Sandyford, Dublin.

The developers chosen to build the hospital at St James's was a consortium known
as Synchrony -- a group that includes multinational firm Capio Healthcare and
developer Bernard McNamara.

However, it now appears neither Beaumont nor St James's had the legal standing
to enter into agreements with these developers who had already invested heavily
in promoting their bid.

Since the announcement, discussions on the proposals have continued between the
developers and the boards of the two public hospitals.

It is understood that no binding contracts have yet been signed.

But it is believed the boards of both hospitals have been made aware of the
legal questions which have led to the emergency legislation being rushed
through.

No planning permission has yet been sought for the private hospitals and the
developers are finding that doing business through the public service is proving
much slower than if they were proceeding with their own projects on their own.

The question of who owns hospital land in other areas of the country is believed
to have deterred developers from getting involved in co-location projects.

The idea is that the State will lease -- not sell -- the land to the private
developers who will build the co-located facility next to the public hospital.
The aim is to free-up private beds for public patients in public hospitals.

The news of the legal question mark over the ownership of the land in the two
major hospitals is believed to have come as a shock to both sets of developers.

The question the Department of Health must answer is why this was allowed to
proceed for so long without any legal checks being made.

The question mark over the legal status of the National Paediatric Hospital
Development Board will also come as a surprise. Health Minister Mary Harney
announced that it was being put on a statutory footing on the eve of the
election in order to allow the necessary preparatory work for the establishment
of the national children's hospital.

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                 Copyright 2007 Independent News and Media Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved


