                              58 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                          The Globe and Mail (Canada)

                             May 18, 1985 Saturday

Rights of the patient

BYLINE: J. E. H. Bishop; GAM

LENGTH: 254 words

DATELINE: London, Ont.


The article Psychiatric Patients Held Involuntarily Deprived Of Right (May
 7) quotes a lawyer as saying, "most involuntary patients are not aware of
 their rights." This statement is not accurate. For more than a year, each
 provincial psychiatric hospital has had a patient advocate freely
 available to all patients to inform them of their rights and help them
 solve bureaucratic or legal problems and get any legal assistance they
 need. While it is true that the general hospitals do not yet have such
 advocates, the majority of involuntary patients are in the psychiatric
 hospitals.

At our psychiatric hospital in London (and at most or all of the other
 provincial psychiatric hospitals) legal aid comes regularly to the
 hospital every one to two weeks, according to patient demand, and in the
 patient areas on the wards there are notices posted giving the telephone
 number for contacting legal aid.

The author also fails to mention that all patients held on a
 certificate of involuntary admission are sent written notices of committal
 informing them that an involuntary certificate has been completed, that
 they are entitled to a hearing before the regional review board, and that
 if they wish a review hearing, they must send a written request to the
 board or the appropriate person at the hospital.

The patient advocates are there to help interpret the information and
 assist the involuntary patients in making sure that their rights are being
 respected.
   J. E. H. Bishop  , MD
  Ontario Psychiatric Association
   London, Ont.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2007

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


 Copyright 1985 The Globe and Mail, a division of CTVglobemedia Publishing Inc.
                              All Rights Reserved


