                              59 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                 Hampstead and Highgate Express (Ham and High)

                             June 21, 2012 Thursday

Wife fights Royal Free Hospital for control of husband's care after overdose
blunder

SECTION: ROP

LENGTH: 414 words


The wife of a disabled father-of-five is involved in a legal battle with the
Royal Free Hospital to take her husband off its books after nurses gave him a
life-threatening overdose.



The wife of a disabled father-of-five is involved in a legal battle with the
Royal Free Hospital to take her husband off its books.

Chammelle Courtney has demanded that husband Mark is transferred to University
College Hospital (UCH) after a blunder in January when staff gave the former
lorry driver 10 times the recommended dose of pain relief drugs. He had been
taken to hospital with breathing problems.

Mr Courtney suffered severe brain damage in 2007 after an asthma attack.

His wife, legally appointed to manage his affairs, wants the hospital to let Mr
Courtney move to UCH but the Royal Free has challenged her.

Mrs Courtney, 38, said: "My main concern is to keep my husband alive and I am
really worried that if he stays under the control of this hospital then he will
die."

The hospital would not comment on the issue of transferring Mr Courtney as the
legal case is being considered. But a spokeswoman said hospital bosses are in
the middle of reviewing policies following the overdose.

Chammelle Courtney has demanded that her husband Mark is transferred to nearby
University College Hospital (UCH) after the blunder.

Hospital staff gave the former lorry driver 10 times the recommended dose of
pain relief drugs on January 11 this year after he was taken to hospital with
breathing problems.

Mr Courtney suffered severe brain damage in 2007 after an asthma attack.

His wife, who is legally appointed to manage his affairs, has demanded the
hospital in Pond Street, Hampstead, let Mr Courtney move to UCH but the Royal
Free has challenged her decision.

Mrs Courtney, 38, said: "My main concern is to keep my husband alive and I am
really worried that if he stays under the control of this hospital then he will
die. It's as plain and simple as that."

The hospital would not comment on the issue of transferring Mr Courtney as the
legal case is being considered.

But a spokeswoman did confirm hospital bosses were in the middle of reviewing
policies following the overdose blunder.

She said: "The nurses involved have been through a performance and conduct
process.

"The medication safety committee is reviewing the policy for prescribing and
managing controlled liquid medication based on the recommendations from the full
and detailed serious untoward incident investigation carried out by the trust."

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: HHE


                      Copyright 2012 Archant Regional Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


