                              60 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 12, 1999, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Homeless Families May Go To City Hospitals Overnight

BYLINE: By AMY WALDMAN

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 685 words


The Giuliani administration plans to begin using rooms at two public hospitals
-- North Central Bronx Hospital and Harlem Hospital Center -- to house homeless
families overnight if the need arises, officials said yesterday.

But the Legal Aid Society, which has been monitoring the city's handling of the
homeless as part of a long-standing court case, said it was prepared to sue to
stop the plan. Elected officials and public health advocates, too, concerned
about the future of the city's public hospitals, said they opposed it.

Under a City Council ordinance that the Mayor signed into law in May, as well as
later court orders, the city is required to find overnight placement for all
families that come to its Emergency Assistance Unit in the Bronx seeking
shelter.

On June 30, a judge found the city in violation of the new law and ordered it to
comply by July 12.

Susan Wiviott, a spokeswoman for the city's Department of Homeless Services,
said that the city had done "pretty well" in complying with the latest court
order. "Just about every night we've had places to put everyone as needed," she
said.

But Steven Banks, director of the Homeless Rights Project for the Legal Aid
Society, said that that was because the city was sending families to temporary
placements for several nights in a row -- bringing them back to the Emergency
Assistance Unit during the day -- rather than finding permanent housing, in
violation of a 1990 court order. He said the hospital plan would not solve that
problem.

Ms. Wiviott said the department could begin placing up to 12 families, one
family per room, at North Central Bronx Hospital as early as tomorrow.

"We're potentially using 12 rooms, sort of on an as-needed basis, until the
beginning of September," Ms. Wiviott said. At that point, she said, she expects
the number of homeless families needing placement to drop.

The plan to use North Central Bronx for homeless families was reported yesterday
in The Daily News.

City officials said that homeless families would also be placed on the ninth
floor of Harlem Hospital's Kountz Pavilion, and that those beds might be used
for overnight placements on a more permanent basis.

Because the number of patients at public hospitals is dwindling, the city's
Health and Hospitals Corporation agreed to let the Department of Homeless
Services place homeless families at the two hospitals, Dr. Luis R. Marcos, the
corporation's president, said yesterday.

"If there is a need to house these homeless families, since we have space at
North Central Bronx and Harlem, we'd be happy to help," Dr. Marcos said.

But Mr. Banks said that he told city officials, in a phone conference convened
by a court-appointed monitor, that he was prepared to sue to stop the plan, and
that city officials had told him they might reconsider.

"It's unlawful to house families with children in such facilities," Mr. Banks
said. "The fact that the city is prepared to resort to such facilities is a
direct result of the city's reduction in permanent housing for homeless
families, which has caused a backlog in the shelter system."

Ms. Wiviott said the law required that a family have a room and a bathroom,
which is why a hospital would be an acceptable placement.

But Mr. Banks said the new law prohibits the city from opening any new shelters
that are not readily convertible -- with cooking facilities and other basic
services -- to permanent housing. A hospital, he said, would not meet that
standard.

The Bronx Borough President, Fernando Ferrer, and Assemblyman Roberto Ramirez of
the Bronx said they believed that the state needed to authorize such use of
hospitals.

Dr. Marcos said last night that "the State Department of Health is aware" of the
plan.

Community leaders also expressed concern that the city's plan could have a
negative impact on the hospitals. The future of North Central Bronx Hospital is
a matter of growing concern in the area. Public health advocates and elected
officials say they believe the city is secretly trying to close the hospital, a
charge the city has denied.



http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 The New York Times Company


