                              61 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                Caribbean Net News, Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                              March 1, 2010 Monday

Suriname hospitals consider legal action to end strike

BYLINE: Ivan Cairo, Caribbean Net News, Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 589 words


Mar. 1--PARAMARIBO, Suriname --  At least one of three public hospitals in
Suriname, which are being seriously affected by strike actions, is considering
legal action against the union an official at the Lands Hospital has confirmed.

Operations at three of Suriname's four public hospitals are being hit by a
walkout over a wage dispute with the government.

In an invited comment, Lorenzo Irion, a spokesman for the Lands Hospital,
disclosed on Sunday that the hospital management is considering legal action
against the worker's union if mediation scheduled for Tuesday fails to offer a
resolution.

At the request of the management, the Suriname Mediation Board, the country's
institute which handles conflicts between worker's unions and employers, has
summoned parties in an attempt to seek a resolution.

"We are still performing deliveries and emergency operations. The doctors are
not on strike and with the personnel that are on hand we are keeping operations
running as best as we can. But the management is considering legal steps against
the union to bring back some normalcy," said Irion.

He further disclosed that Home Affairs minister Maurits Hassankhan, who has lead
responsibility in the implementation of the FISO salary scheme, has indicated
his willingness to meet with the union and hospital management on Monday, to
discuss the issues.

Meanwhile Finance Minister Humphrey Hildenberg is adamant that he is unaware of
an agreement to finance salaries for hospital workers on basis of the new wage
structure. According to officials retroactive pay of the new salaries will cost
about US$17.9 million.

Workers at the Academic Hospital Paramaribo, the Nickerie Hospital and Lands
Hospital downed their tools over a week ago after the government failed to
include them into the newly introduced salary scheme (FISO) for public servants.

According to the unions, workers have been waiting for 11 months now for the
government to implement the new salary structure. Meanwhile, workers at the
Psychiatric Hospital Suriname, during a meeting on Friday agreed to wait until
Tuesday to decide whether they would join the strike at he other institutions.

Irion informed that Lands Hospital has completed all administrative requirements
to pay the new salaries since last year, but that the money has to come from the
government. As a result of the strike, the hospital since Friday has been
discharging patients who don't need urgent care, while no new patients are being
admitted, unless they are in a life threatening condition.

Over the weekend workers at the Academic Hospital processed the required
information obtained from the ministry of Home Affairs into the hospital
computers in order to facilitate payment of the new salaries.

In a meeting on Tuesday the union at this hospital will take a decision whether
to suspend or continue the strike action.

Meanwhile, the General Union for Nurses in Suriname, an umbrella organization
for nurses, informed the management of the hospitals that they will join the
industrial actions on Tuesday, if by that date the new salaries are not paid.

To see more of the Caribbean Net News or to subscribe to the newspaper, go to
http://www.caribbeannetnews.com/. Copyright (c) 2010, Caribbean Net News, Grand
Cayman, Cayman Islands Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Information Services.
For reprints, email tmsreprints@permissionsgroup.com, call 800-374-7985 or
847-635-6550, send a fax to 847-635-6968, or write to The Permissions Group
Inc., 1247 Milwaukee Ave., Suite 303, Glenview, IL 60025, USA.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20100301-1CB-Suriname-hospitals-consider-legal-action-to-end-strike-0301

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1CB


                       Copyright 2010 Caribbean Net News


