                              62 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                               Sunday Independent

                               November 13, 2016
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Kerry nurses blew whistle on HSE's 'offensive' memo;
Rare legal action against elderly patient concluded last year

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 785 words


Maeve Sheehan THE Irish nursing union was notified by nurses in Kerry General
Hospital about the controversial legal memo that advised the use of "minimum
force" on "trespassing" patients ready to be discharged. The Irish Nursing and
Midwives Association was contacted about the memo by concerned members at Kerry
General on October 26, more than two weeks after it was drafted by the Health
Service Executive's legal department.

The memo was "withdrawn" by the HSE two days later on October 28. But the INMO's
Phil Ni Sheaghdha said the INMO continued to get concerned calls about the memo
right up to last week from members "in various hospitals", suggesting that it
remained in circulation.

The memo generated public outrage after a copy was leaked to RTE last week. The
Minister for Health, Simon Harris, referred to it as "offensive" and Tony
O'Brien, the director general of the HSE, apologised for it.

The memo offered hospitals guidance on freeing up hospital beds as they prepared
for an increased demand for acute services over the flu season.

The INMO's director of regulation, Edward Mathews, outlined details of the memo
in an urgent notice to members last week.

"The memo considers circumstances where a patient may refuse to leave a hospital
bed, where they have been medically discharged, and advises that a nurse has
lawful authority to move a person from a ward to ward within a hospital,
regardless of the wishes of a patient, and further advises that the nurse has an
equal right to remove the person from a bed improperly occupied. The advice
continues that once a person refuses to leave, the nurse is entitled to remove
the person as a trespasser, using minimum force to do so."

Tony O'Brien told an Oireachtas Committee last week that the legal advice did
not reflect general policy and related only to the "very rare cases" where a
patient refuses 'The patient and her family refused to seek nursing home care'
to move on to other forms of care after their treatment in a hospital bed has
been completed.

Liam Woods said that the memo was a "briefing note" for senior management, and
said that no patients were removed from their beds.

There are more than 500 patients occupying beds in acute hospitals even though
their care has ended.

Senior health sources said this weekend that the hospitals are under pressure
due to the shortage of step-down facilities but that legal action was rare.

One of the few known cases concerned a legal action to recover fees taken by St
James Hospital in Dublin against an CAPTION: HSE chief Tony O'Brien elderly
patient who allegedly "refused" to be discharged.

It is understood the patient passed away while she was still a patient in the
hospital that was suing her.

The legal action the hospital took against her concluded in the High Court in
June last year. St James Hospital declined to comment on the outcome of the case
this weekend.

However, in a detailed statement to this newspaper two years ago, the hospital
said the patient in question was ready for discharge in May 2010.

The hospital said the patient "refused" to apply for the Fair Deal Scheme to
avail of nursing home care and that the patient's "family also refused to pursue
the patient's options under the scheme, after the patient was fit for discharge
to a long-term care facility".

The hospital said its social work department "had been actively engaged in
finding and offering long-term care options to the patient, but neither the
patient nor her children will complete the necessary forms to enable her to
avail of such options".

It continued: "If patients refuse to accept discharge from acute care, the
hospital is obliged under the Health (Amendment) Act of 2005 and the regulations
made under the Act to charge the patient for the bed being occupied."

St James Hospital issued legal proceedings against the patient in 2012 and got a
High Court order for the fees a year later. The case was appealed by the patient
who died before the appeal concluded.

Hospitals are under enormous pressure to free up acute beds. The Minister for
Health, Simon Harris, said earlier this year that the number of delayed
discharges was far too high, and reducing the figure was "key to making progress
in our emergency departments".

An extra (EURO)40m was provided under the Winter Initiative to reduce emergency
department overcrowding and to provide extra home care packages.

However, he said last week that he was "furious" when he learned of the HSE memo
which said that patients who were ready for discharge but did not leave were
"trespassers" who could be lawfully removed by nurses.

He said he was informed about the existence of the memo on October 27, the day
before it was formally rescinded by the HSE.

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SDI


             Copyright 2016 Independent Newspapers Ireland Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


