                              63 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           February 14, 2005, Monday

£500 ..THAT'S ALL YOU WILL GET FOR A DEAD CHILD'S ORGANS;
 PARENTS FIGHT ON AS NHS DOES U-TURN

BYLINE: JANE KERR AND REBECCA SMITH

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 528 words

HIGHLIGHT: BRISTOL; The Royal Infirmary kept body parts; LIVERPOOL; Alder Hey
had organs in lab; SORRY: Cindy and Graham; SCANDAL: Organs store at Alder Hey


HUNDREDS of parents whose dead babies' organs were removed and stored without
their permission are facing fresh heartbreak.

The NHS is refusing to pay legal bills of half the 1,348 families as they fight
for compensation.

And that could see them left with as little as £500 after years of bitter
wrangling.

One devastated parent said yesterday: "Depending on how long it goes on we could
end up paying them money.

"This has been going on now for nearly five years and the strain is becoming
intolerable."

NHS bosses offered the families £3.3million compensation after the High Court
ruled last March that many hospitals across the UK had broken the law. That
meant they would get around £2,448 each.

But health chiefs now argue that more than half of them didn't suffer
foreseeable psychological damage and won't pay solicitors' bills.

In a double blow, the Legal Services Commission, which funds legal aid, wants
some of the money back which paid for nearly half of the families High Court
action. Once many of the parents settle their own legal costs, which are
currently average pounds 1,618 each, and other expenses, they could be out of
pocket.

Cindy and Graham Bewes, who discovered the bodies of their stillborn twin babies
Danielle and Lauren were kept at Alder Hey Children's Hospital in Liverpool, got
£5,000 compensation and an apology after settling at arbitration.

Cindy said: "I feel desperately sorry for the families because now it seems the
only ones who are going to win are the lawyers.

"I feel very strongly that every family should receive the same amount - not
because it is about the money but because we should be treated equally."

She added: "The most important thing was always getting an apology. We had as
positive an outcome as was possible. Alder Hey stood up and apologised.

"The Government stood up and apologised. It gives closure but their heartache is
going on and on."

The organ scandal first came to light in 1999 when it was discovered that
Bristol Royal Infirmary took children's organs for research without first asking
loved ones. Other investigations showed Alder Hey did the same.

Other hospitals involved include Addenbrooke's Hospital in Cambridge,
Southampton General, John Radcliffe Hospital in Oxford, East Kent Hospitals
Trust, St James in Leeds, Birmingham Children's, Royal Liverpool Children's,
Lewisham University Hospital and the University Hospital of Wales.

One family was told their child has been buried in a "little garden for babies".

The resting place did not exist and instead some of their organs were sold to
Europe for research.

Just last year, that hospital which we haven't named to protect the family's
identity, offered to post remains of the baby's organs still in its pathology
lab.

The families' lawyers will fight on. Fifteen test cases could be back in court
in the autumn.

Legal papers prepared by the solicitors say that the NHS believes only around 50
per cent of the families would win their case if they went to court.

One lawyer for the parents wrote of the NHS: "They are un-fortunately taking an
aggressive stance."

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2005 MGN Ltd.


