                              64 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                                The Irish Times

                                November 2, 2002

Parents of children may take legal action

BYLINE: By KITTY HOLLAND

SECTION: CITY EDITION; HOME NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 575 words


The Parents For Justice group, which campaigns on behalf of people whose
deceased children's organs were retained by hospitals without their consent, is
considering legal action against the hospitals and individual doctors.

The group's spokeswoman, Ms Fionnuala O'Reilly, was speaking in response to
reports that Our Lady's Hospital for Sick Children in Crumlin had sought legal
indemnity from all claims from parents in advance of its participation in the
Organ Retention Inquiry.

The chief executive of Our Lady's Hospital, Mr Paul Kavanagh, confirmed that the
hospital had sought indemnity "as a prudent matter of course".

Mr Kavanagh said: "We were advised to do so by our legal people. The Minister
said he had no authority to give legal indemnity and we accepted that.

" In no way though were we making our participation in the inquiry conditional
on getting indemnity. I must stress that."

Ms O'Reilly however questioned why the hospital had been advised to seek
indemnity at all "if the post-mortem practices were as routine as they told us".

Parents For Justice withdrew from the Dunne inquiry into organ retention last
month, citing "the absence of specific statutory proposals" and long delays in
getting the inquiry up and running.

Since withdrawing the group has been "left with three options", Ms O'Reilly
said.

These were to mount a public campaign with a view to having a statutory inquiry
established; to issue legal writs en masse against nominated people in
hospitals, the Minister for Health and the relevant health boards; or to press
for criminal proceedings against individual clinicians in the hospitals.

The group has employed a public relations firm to take charge of its publicity
campaign.

"Parents for Justice has never discussed the issue of litigation with the
Minister for Health but we cannot rule out the possibility of individual writs,"
said Ms O'Reilly. However, there "were clear breaches of legislation".

In many instances hospitals had failed to notify coroners of children's deaths.
In other instances, she said, parents were told their consent was not needed for
a post-mortem on their dead child as the coroner had ordered one, when in fact
the coroner had not been notified of the death. In some cases children's deaths
have never been registered by the hospitals.

"It's absolutely shocking. It is clear that there have certainly been breaches
of the law", though it remained unclear whether the alleged breaches were
perpetrated by doctors on their own initiative or whether they were effectively
hospital policy.

"We are in consultation with our legal advisers on the issue of criminal
proceedings," she said.

She also said the group may press the Attorney General for inquests into the
individual cases.

Questioning the good faith of all the relevant hospitals' participation in the
Dunne inquiry, she said Our Lady's Hospital and others had been "ducking and
diving".

"It is outrageous to think that this hospital would, for 18 months, string these
distraught parents along into co-operating with an inquiry which we believe is
going nowhere."

Mr Kavanagh, acknowledging that the hospital was taking a long time to ready
itself for the inquiry, said a "very considerable part of hospital effort" had
been directed at "trying to respond to individual requests for information" -
time which was "necessary and appropriate". He said there was no "concealment".

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                         Copyright 2002 The Irish Times


