                              65 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                     Marin Independent Journal (California)

                            September 9, 2012 Sunday

Editorial: MGH legal win turns attention to construction

BYLINE: Marin Independent Journal Editorial

SECTION: OPINION; Editorials

LENGTH: 500 words


A MARIN COURT-ASSIGNED arbitrator's ruling that Marin General Hospital is the
"prevailing party" in its lawsuit with Sutter Health opens the door for the
community-run hospital to seek recovery of its legal costs.

It also ends a long legal and political battle and focuses attention on Marin
General Hospital's building plans, seismic-safety repairs and the need to muster
political support to pass a bond measure   for as much as $350 million   that
needs voter approval.

Marin General Hospital's leadership needed to exhaust its legal fight with
Sutter, which ran Marin's largest community hospital for 25 years before turning
it back to public management.

The lawsuit centered on claims that Sutter had sent millions in MGH-generated
profits to other hospitals in its statewide chain, Novato Community Hospital
among them. The lawsuit said the Marin Healthcare District, which owns the
hospital and had leased it to Sutter, had been unfairly kept in the dark about
MGH's true profits. Money raised at the Greenbrae hospital was pocketed by the
health-care corporation when it could have been used for improvements needed at
Marin General, the lawsuit claimed.

The court-appointed arbitrator rejected MGH's complaints about diverted profits
and Sutter's local board's fiduciary responsibility. But the arbitrator did rule
that Sutter violated promises that the transition in management and operations
would be seamless.

While Sutter escaped paying more than $100 million, the arbitrator did order it
to pay Marin General $11.3 million into the pension plan for Sutter workers, for
failure to adequately cooperate in the transition of information technology
systems and for underfunding the recruitment of physicians.

The latest ruling allows MGH to seek recovery of its legal costs   estimated at
several million dollars.

MGH has made every legal effort to recover money that many people believe
rightfully should have been invested into the hospital. District directors and
their legal team should have done a better job of fact-finding in negotiating
the early end of Sutter's lease in 2006. But at the time, district leaders faced
the added pressure to resolve the acrimonious battle over MGH in order to start
work on meeting state deadlines for tougher seismic-safety building standards.

The war of words might continue. Both sides claim victory, with Sutter stressing
that the ruling did not find fault with its overall financial management and
Marin General noting the court had ordered Sutter to pay the hospital more than
$11 million.

The bottom line is that Marin General went to court to recover money it felt it
was entitled to. The arbitrator ruled and district voters can't say, when asked
by MGH to raise taxes to pay for the capital bonds, "Get the money from Sutter."

Now, MGH's leaders need to focus public attention on a building plan for
modernization and meeting state earthquake-safety requirements. It's time to
turn the corner from past battles and focus on quality care and MGH's future.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Marin General Hospital, seen on Wednesday, June 22, 2011, in Greenbrae,
Calif., has been under public management for a year. It was managed by Sutter
Health previously. (IJ photo/Frankie Frost) Frankie Frost
Marin General Hospital, seen on Wednesday, June 22, 2011, in Greenbrae, Calif.,
has been under public management for a year. It was managed by Sutter Health
previously. (IJ photo/Frankie Frost) Frankie Frost
An artist's rendering of the new Marin General Hospital project. Two new parking
garage are at far left. The two square buildings at far right are the new
inpatient hospital and the square building in the center is the new outpatient
ancillary services building. .

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


    Copyright 2012 Marin Independent Journal, a MediaNews Group publication
                              All Rights Reserved


