                              66 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                           January 17, 2015 Saturday

Corporators' bid to keep nursing homes open thwarted by PMC chief

BYLINE: Ajay Khape

LENGTH: 424  words


Stating that there is no provision in law that empowers the civic administration
to halt action initiated against those running unregistered hospitals and
nursing homes, Municipal Commissioner Kunal Kumar turned down a demand of
elected representatives to withdraw action against 80 hospitals and nursing
homes. They had been facing legal action for not registering with the civic
body.

As per the Bombay Nursing Home Registration Act, it is mandatory for a hospital
or nursing home to register it with the civic body. The PMC administration had
in 2013 identified 80 hospitals and nursing homes within PMC limits but not
registered by the civic body. The civic administration had been taking legal
action against them.

In response to a demand made to civic administration by elected representatives
to withdraw legal action against these hospitals and nursing homes, municipal
commissioner Kunal Kumar said the action was as per law. "There is no provision
in the law empowering the civic administration to stop action initiated against
hospitals and nursing homes that violated rules. The action cannot be stopped,"
he said in a written statement to the committee.

The civic health officer said the health department sought legal opinion before
turning down the demand of corporators that the action be revoked. "The PMC has
taken legal action against hospitals and nursing homes running without being
registered with the civic body. As the matter was in court, the opinion of legal
department was sought and they gave a negative opinion, which was conveyed to
the committee," he said.

He said many hospitals and nursing homes facing action have either been
registered with PMC or closed down. "There are some hospitals and nursing homes
that have run only Out Patient Department. Some have closed down," the officer
said.

As per the officer, those running hospitals or nursing homes without permission
are penalised first and if the offence is repeated strict action is taken. MNS
corporator Anil Rane, Congress corporator Mukari Algude and NCP corporator Sunil
Gogale submitted a proposal to the women and child welfare committee of PMC
urging the civic administration to withdraw action initiated against hospitals
and nursing homes running without PMC permission.

"The hospitals and nursing homes are into social service as help the civic body
during emergency situations like the swine flu outbreak. They provide service to
civic body in public interest so the PMC should take their good work into
consideration and withdraw the action," Rane said.

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2015 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


