                              68 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Advertiser

                           December 27, 1990 Thursday

Hospital may fight $15m legal costs

BYLINE: SIMON EVANS

LENGTH: 580 words


MELBOURNE: The Alfred Hospital is almost certain to appeal against a $15 million
legal bill it has been ordered to pay on behalf of the middle-aged haemophiliac
known as PQ, who contracted AIDS six years ago after being treated at the
hospital.

Acting medical director Dr John Wiseman said there was a 90 per cent chance the
hospital would appeal to the Full Bench of the Supreme Court to have the
decision on legal costs reversed.

Hospital officials, insurance company representatives, solicitors and officials
from the Health Department of Victoria have scheduled a meeting for tomorrow to
discuss the appeal.

Dr Wiseman said the Alfred Hospital, based in the inner eastern suburb of
Prahran, was covered against damages and legal costs, but the unnamed insurance
company was "distressed" by the $15 million legal bill.

On Monday, Justice McGarvie ordered that legal costs for PQ, the Australian Red
Cross and the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories be met by the Alfred Hospital.

Two days earlier, PQ was awarded more than $870,000 by a Supreme Court Jury as
compensation for pain, suffering, medical expenses and loss of income, after he
was treated with a blood product at the hospital.

The trial lasted more than 90 days.

PQ was the first Australian to successfully sue over AIDS infection and the
landmark decision is expected to open a floodgate of multimillion-dollar damages
claims by up to 400 haemophiliacs infected during treatment at hospitals
throughout the country.

PQ, who is married with children, launched his legal action in July against the
Australian Red Cross Society, the Alfred Hospital and the Commonwealth Serum
Laboratories, claiming it was through their negligence that he became HIV
positive late in 1984.

But the Alfred Hospital was found to be the only negligent party.

"These costs are quite a slug," Dr Wiseman said.

"Over the next day, we'll have a more exact idea of the final bill, but $15
million appears to be a reliable estimate.

"The insurance company is experiencing significant discomfort, to say the least,
at the prospect of such costs.

"Unfortunately, it is the taxpayer who ultimately will have to pay because the
Health Department pays the insurance premiums for public hospitals.

"Considering that there still are questions and uncertainties about the case,
there will be a need to look at an appeal," Dr Wiseman said.

Chief general manager of the Victorian Health Department, Mr Tim Daly, said
insurance policies managed by the department covered all public hospitals and
community health centres.

"We don't have simply one policy with one company, but a series of policies
underwritten by several companies," Mr Daly said.

In ADELAIDE, a senior medical welfare worker said there had been no significant
increase in the incidence of South Australian haemophiliacs contracting the AIDS
virus.

Haemophilia Foundation of Australia senior vice-president Mr Alan Ewart said
fewer than five haemophiliacs of the 150 in the State were suffering from HIV
infections.

The progress of the disease among haemophiliacs had virtually stopped in 1984
when the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories in Canberra stopped supplying
contaminated blood.

Mr Ewart said there were 350 to 400 haemophiliacs throughout Australia infected
with the HIV virus.

Mr Ewart said he was not aware of any planned or pending South Australian civil
claims arising from the Victorian Supreme Court decision.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: ADV

                   Copyright 1990 Nationwide News Pty Limited


