                              72 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                     News-Journal (Daytona Beach, Florida)

                              July 21, 2014 Monday

Halifax Health board votes to end whistleblower lawsuit

BYLINE: Skyler Swisher; Jeffrey Cassady, Skyler Swisher & Jeffrey Cassady
skyler.swisher@news-jrnl.com jeffrey.cassady@news-jrnl.com

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 893  words


DAYTONA BEACH -- After five years, a fiercely fought legal battle that cost
Halifax Health more than $110 million in settlement and legal costs is drawing
to a close.

The Halifax Health Board of Commissioners voted unanimously Monday to settle
remaining claims in a whistleblower lawsuit for $1 million plus $4.5 million in
legal fees for the whistleblower's attorneys. That's on top of an $85 million
settlement in March and about $29.5 million in legal fees.

Officials at the public hospital say their decision to settle was not an
admission of wrongdoing but to minimize potential legal risk.

"We are disappointed in paying anything for providing exceptional care, but we
are looking forward to putting this behind us and moving forward," Halifax
Health CEO Jeff Feasel said in a prepared statement. "Unfortunately, in
situations like this, avoiding future appeals and legal fees is the right
business decision."

Although parties have agreed to the settlement terms, a filing still must be
entered in federal court in Orlando to dismiss the case, hospital officials
said.

The board also voted Monday night to evaluate the performance of the chief
executive officer and legal counsel, as well as hold town hall meetings to
answer questions from the public. No dates have been set.

John Johnson, chairman of the board, said the evaluations are routine but will
consider leadership's handling of the lawsuit.

"We want to look at the performance of the CEO, legal counsel and management
during this difficult time," said Johnson, who also serves as president of
Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University. "We are very pleased to bring a close to
the litigation. We want to focus on the core mission of the hospital, which is
providing great health care to all those in need in the community."

While hospital officials deny wrongdoing, whistleblower Elin Baklid-Kunz and her
attorney Marlan Wilbanks argued the hospital turned a blind eye to billing
practices and physician contracts that cost the cash-strapped Medicare program
money. Contracts rewarded six cancer doctors and three neurosurgeons based on
their productivity, giving them incentives to do more procedures and tests that
could potentially harm patients, they argued. Those contracts violated the
federal Stark Law, according to the lawsuit.

A five-year corporate integrity agreement required by the settlement will give
the federal government greater oversight into the hospital's operations, a key
victory for the whistleblower, Wilbanks said.

"For the next five years, the government is going to work every day at Halifax,"
he said. "It won't be over tomorrow. The effects will be felt every day for at
least the next five years."

Baklid-Kunz sued in 2009, and two years later, the U.S. Department of Justice
intervened on some of her claims. As the dust settles, Baklid-Kunz and her
attorneys will recoup $20.8 million of the settlement amount. Baklid-Kunz is
still employed by Halifax Health as director of physician services.

The latest portion of the case settled by the board Monday involved allegations
the hospital admitted patients for short hospital stays who should have been
kept for observation and billed at a lower rate.

In a prepared statement, Dr. Sandra Buchanan, president of the hospital's
medical staff, said deciding when to admit a patient "is a tough call that can
only be made by a physician." In a July 1 ruling, Judge Gregory Presnell wrote
it was undisputed Halifax could have billed Medicare for the services it
rendered to patients, but the question was over how much the hospital should
have received from the government.

"While we are also disappointed that any settlement had to be paid, we are
pleased that the judge agreed with our continued assertions that no
inappropriate care was given to any patient and look forward to moving past this
issue and focusing our attention where it belongs ... on the patients who come
to us in need," Buchanan said.

The meeting on Monday took only about 30 minutes, and little public discussion
occurred. In an interview after the vote, Johnson said attorneys initially
seemed optimistic about their ability to defend the hospital if the case went to
trial. Then about a year ago, the attorneys told board members the hospital's
best option was to settle. At one point, potential damages were estimated to
exceed $1 billion.

"We were not willing to put the hospital at that level of risk," Johnson said.
"The hospital didn't have any choice other than to settle these cases."

The hospital spent more than $24 million in legal fees and costs fighting the
lawsuit, using four different law firms and paying additional lawyers for its
employees and doctors. Plus, the hospital previously paid $5.4 million to the
whistleblower's attorneys, according to court documents.

As hospital commissioners weighed the matter, a judge ordered another health
care provider, Sumter, S.C.,-based Tuomey Healthcare System, to pay about $237
million in October after a federal jury found the system violated the same laws
Halifax Health was accused of violating.

Halifax board Vice Chairman Glenn Ritchey, a former Daytona Beach mayor, says
the hospital's legal troubles call for a possible refinement of policies and
procedures, although he didn't elaborate what that might entail.

"Now that we are through this, we're the poster child for understanding it," he
said.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

