                              74 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                        Las Cruces Sun-News (New Mexico)

                              June 17, 2013 Monday

Las Cruces residents seek legal opinion on proposed hospital plan

BYLINE: By Steve Ramirez / sramirez@lcsun-news.com

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 918 words


Review a copy of a brochure Galichia Hospital Group, LLC gave tocity officials.
Review a copy ofthe agenda for the June 25 Planning and Zoning Commission
meeting.
Review a copy ofthe rezoning application filed with the city of Las Cruces
Community Development Department.
Visit thePark Ridge website .
LAS CRUCES - Efforts will continue by some Las Crucens to obtain a legal opinion
about a planned hospital on a portion of the 110-acre former Las Cruces Country
Club, despite comments last week from a Las Cruces developer who said the
facility would not be physician-owned.

Las Crucen Connie Potter, who has been a registered nurse for 45 years, and a
former trauma system manager in Oregon, said a move to obtain a legal opinion
from the lawfirm of Alston and Bird, LLP, of Atlanta and Washington, D.C. will
continue.

"The legal firm of Alston and Bird, LLP, has been retained by the Country Club
Neighborhood Association and an analysis of this hospital proposal and its
structure will be forthcoming shortly," Potter said Saturday. "Thomas Scully,
former director of Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), and (now) a
partner of the firm, directed this issue to Rob Stone, an attorney with the law
firm that specializes in regulatory law, and a team of lawyers will conduct the
analysis."

John Stevens, president of the Country Club Neighborhood Association, a
homeowners group whose residents live near the proposed development, said the
association supports efforts to get the legal opinion, which association members
hope to provide to city officials by the time the Las Cruces Planning and Zoning
Commission meets, at 6 p.m. June 25 at City Hall to consider a rezoning
application for 30.745 acres where the hospital would be built.

The Country Club Neighborhood Association (CCNA) met earlier this week and
approved motions to pursue the legal opinion, and to formally state it is not
necessarily opposed to redevelopment of the former country club property under
certain conditions.

"CCNA voted on, and passed a motion that we are in favor of the Las Cruces
Country Club property being developed in a sensible manner," Stevens said. "What
we are not in favor of is wall-to-wall in-fill with a hospital, commercial
buildings, helicopters, noise, and traffic, to mention a few things, in a
residential neighborhood."

Potter has said the proposed 42-bed hospital would violate the Affordable Care
Act, also known as Obamacare. Potter has worked extensively in the medical and
health care fields. She is a former administrator of the Emergency Room and
trauma at R.E. Thomason Hospital and UCI Medical Center, both in El Paso.Potter
is also the immediate past chief executive officer of the Trauma Center
Association of America - formerly the National Foundation for Trauma Care."I
stand behind my position that this structure meets the criteria that is
forbidden under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, Section 6001,"
Potter said. "This has already been tested in the (U.S.) Fifth District Court
and cannot be built under CMS. This position has also been confirmed in an email
from staff at Senator Tom Udall's office."

The legal opinion sought is to help clarify whether a proposed physician-owned
hospital could operate in Las Cruces. City officials were presented with a
brochure from Galichia Hospital Group, LLC that indicated plans for a 42 bed
full-service hospital "partnering with over 20 local physicians who are
investing in the real estate and equipment."

However, Robert Pofahl, president of Park Ridge Properties, LLLP, said in an
email sent to the Sun-News that no such plans exist, and there are no plans to
recruit as many as 20 physicians to invest in the facility.

"There is no need for any opinion since there will be no physician ownership of
the hospital or its management or operating company," Pofahl said.

He added, "The impetus for the proposed hospital was the opportunity to develop
an integrated health care and retirement campus served by a small, 42-bed
general hospital providing patients a menu of health care options in a campus
setting, and physicians a high degree of input on the quality and delivery of
health care.

"The hospital is only one component of the health care campus that will include
assisted living, memory care, rehab, fitness, sports medicine and other wellness
services delivered in a resort campus setting. Residents and retirees of Park
Ridge and surrounding neighborhoods will have the benefit of on-site health
services as well as retail, restaurants and other services all provided in a
walk-able, pedestrian-friendly environment."

Repeated attempts to reach Dr. Joseph Galichia, CEO and co-founder of the
company planning to forward the hospital proposal, have been unsuccessful.

Steve Ramirez can be reached at 575-541-5452. Follow him on Twitter
@SteveRamirez6


Legal opinion

Some residents will go forward with plans to obtain a legal opinion regarding
the ability of a proposed hospital to operate on slightly more than 30 acres at
the former Las Cruces Country Club

Thursday, a Las Cruces developer said the hospital would not be physician-owned,
but rather a small, privately owned general hospital

An application to rezone 30.745 acres from R-1a, single-family residential
medium density, to C-3, commercial high intensity, has been filed with the Las
Cruces' Community Development Department

The Las Cruces Planning and Zoning Commission will meet at 6 p.m. June 25, at
City Hall, 700 N. Main St., to consider the requested zone change

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


        Copyright 2013 Las Cruces Sun-News, a MediaNews Group Newspaper
                              All Rights Reserved


