                              75 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                   September 2, 1987, Wednesday, City Edition

All Children's may join Tampa General // Hospitals may unite in legal fight
against building of new center

BYLINE: DIANE RADO

SECTION: METRO AND STATE; Pg. 3B

LENGTH: 493 words

DATELINE: ST. PETERSBURG



ST. PETERSBURG - For nearly a year, the fight over a children's    hospital in
Hillsborough County has been a cross-bay battle between St.    Petersburg and
Tampa.

     Suddenly, some St. Petersburg and Tampa officials are on the same    side.


     All Children's Hospital in St. Petersburg and Tampa General    Hospital are
opposed to the construction of a children's hospital in    Tampa. And the two
hospitals now are talking about joining forces in a    legal fight against the
new center.

     Attorneys for both hospitals "are comparing their legal avenues    ... If
there are compatible areas, we'd consider working with them    (Tampa General),"
Sexton said.      Tampa General officials announced Monday that they will ask
for a    state hearing to protest the 100-bed Tampa Children's Hospital. If the
    hearing isn't granted, the officials said, they would be willing to
appeal in court.

     "All Children's is prepared to take the same position," said    Ralph Dell,
attorney for the Hillsborough County Hospital Authority,    which runs Tampa
General.

     Sexton said Tuesday that All Children's has not made a final    decision on
whether to join Tampa General in petitioning for a hearing.

 But All Children's already has received permission from its board to    take
legal action, if necessary, against the new hospital, and "We    feel like we
are going to," Sexton said.

     Even if All Children's ends up taking a separate legal route,    Sexton
said, "We are with Tampa General in the fact that we are      against the new
hospital."

     That hasn't always been the case.

     All Children's and St. Petersburg officials have been fighting the    new
hospital since at least the beginning of the year. At the time, the    new
hospital was to be built at the University of South Florida Tampa    campus. St.
Petersburg officials feared that the new hospital would    drain patients,
donations and medical support from All Children's, a    USF research and
teaching center.

     Tampa General had not opposed the project. In fact, its chief
administrator sent the state a letter of support for the new children's
hospital.

     Tampa General President Newell France figured that a hospital based    at a
public university with a medical college might take away some of    the poor
patients that cost Tampa General money.

     Tampa General changed it mind when the proposed children's hospital
recently changed locations because of fund-raising and site approval
problems.

     The hospital now is planned for the Buffalo Avenue campus of St.
Joseph's Hospital - Tampa General's arch rival - so there is a threat    that it
could take away some of Tampa General's paying patients.



LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1992

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Times Publishing Company


