                              76 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                      The Yadkin Ripple, Yadkinville, N.C.

                     Distributed by Tribune Content Agency

                              April 4, 2016 Monday

Hospital legal case settled

BYLINE: Kitsey Burns Harrison, The Yadkin Ripple, Yadkinville, N.C.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 759 words


April 04--Ten months after the unexpected closure of the Yadkin Valley Community
Hospital, the ongoing legal battle between Yadkin County and former hospital
operations group CAH, also referred to as HMC, has finally come to a conclusion
with a settlement agreement.

Yadkin County Attorney Ed Powell met with the commissioners in a closed session
emergency meeting last Thursday to present the agreement. The full report was
presented on Monday at the regular meeting of the board of commissioners.

As part of the agreement, CAH has paid $250,000 to the county. County Manager
Lisa Hughes said $26,000 of that money will go to pay the property taxes on the
building. The remaining funds will go towards the legal fees the county has
incurred during the case.

CAH also has paid $14,983.17 to the town of Yadkinville for personal property
tax payment.

In the previous bankruptcy case of CAH, the amount of $451,493.32 remains
payable to the county.

In February of 2015, the county began the process to find a new company to
operate health care services in the county-owned hospital building. After
negotiations came to a standstill, operator CAH closed the hospital on May 22 of
2015 despite a temporary restraining order obtained by the county in an attempt
to keep the hospital open through the end of CAH's lease term.

Judge Terrence Boyle found CAH in contempt of court for defying that restraining
order. In January, Boyle ordered the group to pay damages in the amount of
$36,079.96 in costs and $112,011.70 in attorney fees to the county. In the
meantime, CAH filed counter claims against the county as well as County Chairman
Kevin Austin and Hugh Chatham Memorial Hospital, claiming they were in cahoots
to remove CAH as hospital operations group in order to replace it with Hugh
Chatham Memorial Hospital based in Elkin.

Those counter claims by CAH also have been considered settled as part of the
agreement.

A major concern for the county throughout the case has been the
Medicare/Medicaid liabilities associated with the hospital during CAH's tenure
as operator. In Powell's report to the board, he explained that Dennis Davis,
chief legal officer for CAH, wanted Yadkin County to pay the $1,700,000
liability to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS). Powell said
there were also additional liability amounts for CMS. As part of the settlement
agreement, CAH has agreed that it is liable for all of the CMS obligations.

"Therefore Yadkin County will have no liability for any of these amounts going
forward with a re-opening of the hospital," Powell said.

In conclusion, Powell said the settlement agreement will "save Yadkin County
hundreds of thousands of dollars in attorneys fees, costs and expenses that
would have been paid going forward had the lawsuits continued to conclusion.

"Our outside counsel and my office have researched and evaluated the possibility
that even if we obtained a significant judgment in these legal actions, what
would be the possibility of collecting the damages awarded," Powell said. "It is
our opinion that the primary obligor of these potential damages would be the
corporate entity, CAH Acquisition Company 10, LLC, whose only asset was the
operations of Yadkin Valley Community Hospital. It is likely that if we obtained
a large judgment against all these corporate defendants, they would have
probably declared bankruptcy leaving us with small percentage claims against
bankrupt entities. The value of these claims would be far outweighed by the
tremendous legal costs involved."

Commissioner Frank Zachary said it was a good thing to have the case settled at
last.

"I'd like to say that the last point that the county attorney made, to wage this
battle, create all this carnage, even if we prevailed, we'd be unsatisfied," he
said. "The better part of valor would be to end this thing and move forward."

Commissioner Marion Welborn said he felt the Medicaid liability was one of the
most important factors in the settlement.

Austin agreed, saying the total liability to CMS could be upwards of $5 million.

"The release of all this liability from CMS I think puts us in a much stronger
position to bargain for that provider to come into the space now. I think that's
a big plus," said Commissioner David Moxley.

"The air's cleared now for going forward," Powell said.

Kitsey Burns Harrison may be reached at 336-679-2341 or on Twitter
@RippleReporterK.

___ (c)2016 The Yadkin Ripple (Yadkinville, N.C.) Visit The Yadkin Ripple
(Yadkinville, N.C.) at www.yadkinripple.com Distributed by Tribune Content
Agency, LLC.

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20160404-1YK-Hospital-legal-case-settled-0404-20160404

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1YK


                                 Copyright 2016


