                              79 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 8, 1984, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Cooperation Needed, Not Lawsuits

SECTION: Section 11CN; Page 24, Column 2; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 641 words


I am writing in response to the article ''Ruling on Hospitals Facing
Challenge.'' The article concerned the decision by the Connecticut Hospital
Association (C.H.A.) to sue the Connecticut Department of Mental Health
(D.M.H.).

C.H.A. is arguing that the Department of Mental Health is obligated to accept
all mentally ill patients referred from general hospital emergency rooms. The
department has responded that it is not obligated to accept all patients,
regardless of whether it can provide adequate and safe care for them. Both
parties agree that there is a significant problem. They disagree on its causes,
extent and solutions.

The article did not include quotations from Department of Mental Health
officials, nor did it highlight a key element in the department's present legal
position. According to the state's interpretation of the statutes, public and
private hospitals share the same responsibilities. Therefore, if the department
should be required to accept all patients, so should general and private
psychiatric hospitals. Dennis May, president of the C.H.A., was quoted as
saying, ''Our position was that they (D.M.H.) have a moral obligation to accept
these patients.'' What is the moral responsibility of the Connecticut Hospital
Association? In undertaking legal action against the Department of Mental
Health, does C.H.A. really think that legal resolution will be obtained quickly
to correct the present problems in emergency rooms? Even if a court rules within
the one to three years that a court case may require, will this bring swift
legislative compliance? And will such action provide hospital beds at the cost
of essential community services?

C.H.A. representatives participated on the Governor's Special Task Force on
Mental Health Policy during 1982-83. The task force report identified the
critical problem of community housing for up to 500 state hospital patients, as
well as the need to provide appropriate services in other settings to
significant numbers of nonpsychotic, mentally retarded patients. From 1981-83
the department co-funded a mental health staff position at C.H.A. to work to
increase community psychiatric beds, promote needed new services such as
community residences and intermediate care, and to develop a cooperative working
relationship between C.H.A. and D.M.H.

The Department of Mental Health is well aware of the problems in hospital
emergency rooms, and, in its proposed new programs for fiscal 1985, has included
specific service options which, if implemented, will significantly decrease, if
not eliminate the backups in the emergency rooms

and

 will provide appropriate care to those clients who are in need of service.
Warehousing people in state hospitals should not be considered a treatment of
choice.

Finally, I hope that taxpayers and citizens will ponder the costs of legal
action, both financial and other. Time and money are required on both sides to
develop and argue complex legal issues. For the state, the funds come out of a
budget raised from the public. C.H.A. funds are raised from the 36 member
organizations, community general hospitals, and state facilities. General
hospital expenses are also passed on to the general public through fees for
care, which include indirect costs such as legal expenses. The adversarial
climate created by legal action can hardly benefit anyone.

How much better it would be if the C.H.A. used its considerable clout to argue
the merits of needed services with the legislature, so that ultimately all
parties would benefit - especially the clients in need of care - rather than
attempting to shift the blame onto the ever-available public- sector whipping
post.

BARBARA P. BRESLER Member State Board of Mental Health, Southwest Regional
Mental Health Board Fairfield

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: letter

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


