                              80 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Regional Times

                           November 21, 2015 Saturday

Karachi goes without police surgeon

SECTION: Vol. VIII No. 1037

LENGTH: 313  words


The post of Police Surgeon Karachi has been laying vacant for last three weeks
and the provincial health department Sindh has failed to fill the post as yet.

An official of health department Sindh said the Police Surgeon Karachi's post
has been lying vacant from three weeks and high-ups of department are yet to
appoint any official on this important post. He said police surgeon Karachi is
considered one of major posts in medic-legal department but due to lathery of
bosses the post is laying vacant.

All administrative work in medico-legal departments of three major and six other
hospitals hasbadly affected due non-appointment of police surgeon Karachi. The
salaries, important files and other official work is badly disturbed as no boss
is available to take important decisions.

He explained that Police Surgeon Karachi Dr Jalil Qadir was transferred to
Chemical Examination Department Sindh on 30the October by provincial health
government and since then the post has been laying vacant.

Sources, however, said three major hospitals of city having the facility of
Medico-legal Officers (MLOs) are ASH,JPMC and CHK, while medico-legal
departments in six other hospitals including Lyari General Hospital, Sindh
Government Hospital New Karachi, Sindh Government Hospital Liaquatabad, Sindh
Government Hospital Saudabad, Sindh Government Hospital Qatar Orangi Town and
Sindh Government Hospital Karachi Korangi are partially non-functional due to
shortage of MLOs.

They said at least 20 posts of medico-legal officers, both male and female, are
laying vacant in the city which has increased the burden of work on existing
MLOs in major public sector hospitals.

The MLO's report containing the cause of death, time of death, nature of death,
and other details on an official form at the time of autopsy provides the basis
for a court's case, carrying an impact on the final decision.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                         Copyright 2015 Regional Times
                              All Rights Reserved


