                              81 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                             The Albany Herald, Ga.

                 Distributed by McClatchy-Tribune Business News

                             June 11, 2013 Tuesday

Phoebe Board, Hospital Authority discuss legal matters

BYLINE: Jennifer Maddox Parks, The Albany Herald, Ga.

SECTION: STATE AND REGIONAL NEWS

LENGTH: 348 words


June 11--ALBANY, Ga. -- The Phoebe Putney Memorial Hospital Board, as well as
the Hospital Authority of Albany-Dougherty County, both had special called
meetings on Tuesday, primarily held behind closed doors.

The hospital board meeting started just after noon and soon went into closed
session before re-opening and adjourning at 1:30 p.m. The Hospital Authority met
at 4:30 p.m., with that meeting flowing much the same way as the other one, with
the closed session beginning almost immediately and going on until just before
adjournment at around 5:30 p.m.

Both meetings, conducted in the Willson Board Room of Phoebe Putney Memorial
Hospital, had single items on their agendas. All officials would say regarding
the business of the meetings was that they were held so both boards could seek
legal consultation.

The motion from the Hospital Authority's agenda read "... (D)iscuss with
Authority legal counsel pending and potential claims and litigation as well as
other legally confidential matters."

No action was taken at either meeting.

The meetings took place as recent court orders have blocked the further
integration of the Phoebe North Campus with its sister hospital pending the
results of an administrative trial set to commence on Aug. 5 in Washington, D.C.

The most recent development from the ongoing storyline was the filing of a court
order in which the Hospital Authority and Phoebe Putney Health System agreed to
halt the integration of the former Palmyra Medical Center with Phoebe Putney
Memorial Hospital while an administrative law judge considered a Federal Trade
Commission complaint challenging the merger.

In the federal court order, entered by U.S. District Judge W. Louis Sands last
week, Phoebe officials also agreed to maintain the viability of Phoebe North
until the completion of a full administrative trial on the merits and all
related appeals, extending a similar temporary restraining order issued by the
District Court on May 15.

___ (c)2013 The Albany Herald, Ga. Visit The Albany Herald, Ga. at
www.albanyherald.com Distributed by MCT Information Services

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

ACC-NO: 20130611-1AH-Phoebe-Board-Hospital-Authority-discuss-legal
-matters-0611-20130611

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: 1AH


                                 Copyright 2013


