                              82 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                              Liverpool Daily Echo

                          November 17, 2010 Wednesday
                                  1ST Edition

NEW ROYAL FEARS AS DEFEATED PROTESTER APPEALS ... USING LEGAL AID;
City leaders slam challenge to new hospital: EXCLUSIVE

BYLINE: LIZA WILLIAMS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 976 words


ROYAL Liverpool hospital bosses today said its planned pounds 451m rebuild had
been put into jeopardy by a damaging new legal challenge.

Health chiefs were initially relieved after it was announced a High Court bid
questioning the rebuild had been emphatically thrown out.

But the leader of the bid, Keep Our NHS Public campaigner Sam Semoff, who is
funded through taxpayers' legal aid, has swiftly filed for an appeal.

Today council leader Joe Anderson told Mr Semoff to "bog off ". And hospital
leaders said they were "bitterly disappointed" by the "major setback".

Royal chief executive Tony Bell is concerned the delay could jeopardise the
project, as companies bidding to build the hospital become nervous due to the
continuing uncertainty.

City figures slammed Mr Semoff for his actions and said the new hospital was
essential for the health of Liverpool people.

But the campaigner claimed the use of Private Finance Initiative (PFI) cash to
pay for the hospital would leave the region with huge debts that would impact on
future health services.

Leader of Liverpool City Council, Joe Anderson, said: "My message is 'Bog off
Semoff '. We have had enough delays and interference in so many projects within
this city.

"Quite frankly it annoys not just me but literally thousands of people.

"This is about the health of the people of this city, and is not for some
individual with his own political and ideological reasons to jeopardise the
services meant for the people of this city.

"Mr Semoff 's interference is not welcome, he should at least have the decency
to accept an objective decision."

And MP for Liverpool Riverside, Louise Ellman said: "This is about high quality
health services and employment opportunities on construction and science. It''s
a vital part of Liverpool''s regeneration and must go ahead without delay."

Both parties were told earlier this week that Mr Justice Burnett had thrown out
Mr Semoff 's application for a judicial review about the use of PFI funding for
the new hospital. The legal challenge was directed at the Department of Health,
after the Government approved the Royal's outline business case.

The judge, who made the decision in private, said in his ruling: "The claimant
has no prospect of demonstrating any illegality on the part of the Secretary of
State."

He also ordered Mr Semoff to pay costs to the Royal, Liverpool Primary Care
Trust and the Department of Health.

But Mr Semoff and his solicitors have now filed for an oral hearing - the next
stage of appeal - which will revisit whether a judicial review should go ahead.

Royal bosses fear it could take months to set a date for the hearing, but Mr
Semoff hopes it should be listed before the end of the year.

The campaigner said: "We are as confident as ever that our claim is very strong,
and will succeed.

"I want to emphasise this is about the future of health care for people in
Liverpool for the next 30 years.

"This is why we are so adamant the claim should go through."

Before the latest twist bosses hoped the hospital would be finished by early
2016. Mr Bell said: "We were pleased and reassured that Mr Justice Burnett
refused Mr Semoff permission to proceed with a judicial review.

"We are now bitterly disappointed to learn that Sam Semoff is challenging such a
resounding verdict.

"This is a major setback - the potential impact of which should not be
underestimated. This legal challenge has already delayed the project by over
four months.

"This will delay it further and is likely to deter interested bidders and
deprive the city region of one of its most important regeneration opportunities
for the future. We are angry and upset that this challenge has been lodged given
the resounding verdict from Mr Justice Burnett. We have had phenomenal support
from local people, businesses and other organisations across the city.

"Both the Department of Health and the Treasury assessed the OBC thoroughly,
before approval was given. The project was then reassessed under the
Government's review of spending decisions and given the go-ahead on June 17. We
are taking legal advice in relation to Mr Semoff 's latest announcement and
would urge him to seriously consider the impact of his actions on the people of
Liverpool, Merseyside and Cheshire."

It is the second time Mr Semoff has called for court action. In March last year
he pushed for a judicial review because he said the hospital had not consulted
the public properly on the use of PFI. He won the right to a hearing, but a deal
was later agreed.

TIMELINE . . . .TIMELINE ... TIMELINE .... TIMELINE ....

THE plans to build a new pounds 451m Royal hospital in Liverpool have had a
rollercoaster history:. July 2007- hospital chiefs reveal blueprint for new
Royal Liverpool hospital.

. March 2009 - Sam Semoff launches first legal challenge and a hearing is set.

. April 2009 - A deal is struck and Liverpool PCT and the hospital agree to
carry out more consultation on the proposals.. March 2010 - Merseyside-born
Labour health secretary Andy Burnham gives the go ahead for a new hospital.

. May 2010 - The new Con/Lib Coalition Government announces it is reviewing all
projects given the go ahead since January.

. July 2010 - Conservative Health secretary Andrew Lansley says the project is
safe, and approves the plans once again.

. July 2010 - Royal announces Balfour Beatty, The Hospital Company and Horizon
are the three shortlisted bidders to build the new hospital.

. August 2010 - Sam Semoff launches second legal challenge to the new build
hospital.

. August 2010 - Hospital bosses reveal plan for a biocampus next to the new
hospital, to work with business and universities.. November 2010 - High Court
judge throws out Semoff's demand for a judicial review but campaigner instantly
files for an "oral hearing", leading to delay fears.

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  SUPPORT: Andy Burnham APPROVED: How the new pounds 451m Royal
Liverpool Hospital should look on completion in early 2016 FURY: Royal hospital
chief executive Tony Bell and council leader Joe Anderson have expressed anger
at the latest legal challenge to the new Royal from campaigner Sam Semoff, below
outside the hospital

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: le


               Copyright 2010 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved


