                              84 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                      DNA

                              July 15, 2013 Monday

Of Hingoranis, Hinduja hosp and 'half truths'

BYLINE: Maitri Porecha

LENGTH: 350  words


It has been three weeks since the Ulhasnagar-based couple Mahendar and Rashmi
Hingorani slapped a legal notice on Hinduja Hospital, Mahim, for gross medical
negligence after Rashmi, 41, went in for a kidney stone removal surgery and
ended up getting discharged with an amputated leg.

In spite of multiple requests that the hospital provide them with detailed
medical records from May 20 to July 2, 2011 of Rashmi's condition, Mahendar
alleged that a part of those records were not returned to them.

Following a legal notice stating that the hospital would be sued for Rs5 crore
by the Hingoranis, Mahendar shot another request letter to the hospital on July
9 asking for Rashmi's electronic medical records. The request went unheeded by
the hospital authorities.

After sending in the first legal notice, the hospital provided the Hingoranis
with 523 pages of records on June 28. But electronic data related to CT scans,
ultra sonography and digital X-rays had not been given. The letter which was
forwarded to Hinduja Hospital (a copy of which is with dna) states, "I have not
been furnished with any of the electronic record and data pertaining to the
various investigations performed upon me, including ultrasonography, Colour
Doppler Studies, CT Scan, Digital X-rays etc., as also the electronic data and
record of the various monitors and other gadgets which were used during the
course of treatment."

Mahendar said that the hospital has not yet replied to the letter.

Despite repeated attempts to contact Dr Sanjay Agarwaala, the newly-appointed
medical director of Hinduja Hospital, he remained unavailable for comment.
Former medical director of the hospital, Dr G Daver, was one of the six doctors
from the hospital who was served a legal notice by Hingorani. The other doctors
mentioned in the legal notice and involved with Rashmi's multiple surgical
procedures include Dr Sharad Sagade, consultant urologist, Dr Khusrav Bajan,
consultant physician, Dr Simran Singh, consultant physician, Dr Navnit Kumar,
consultant cardiologist and Dr C Balakrishnan, consultant rheumatologist.

p_maitri@dnaindia.net

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


  Copyright 2013 Diligent Media Corporation Ltd., DNA (Daily News & Analysis),
                           distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


