                              85 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                 Indian Express

                            October 4, 2016 Tuesday

Legal aid cell at Pune mental hospital helps women inmates reunite with kin

BYLINE: anuradha mascarenhas

LENGTH: 508  words

DATELINE: Pune


After her husband's death, the house at Buldhana district in Maharashtra
rightfully belonged to Surekha Patil (name changed). Surekha, however, suffered
from schizophrenia and her son-in-law soon got her admitted to Pune's Regional
Mental Hospital at Yerawada. The family did not bother to contact Surekha and
misled the hospital by giving a fake address in Pune. With time, Surekha's
condition improved and she insisted she had her own home at Buldhana.

For seven years, Rumi Pandya (name changed) was admitted at the same hospital.
Suffering from schizophrenia, the 45-year-old who hailed from Bangalore had
wandered away from home. Police at Hadapsar admitted her to the mental hospital.
After she recovered, she told authorities they had a family hotel business in
Mumbai and a home at Bangalore.

What what else is in the news

At the Yerawada hospital, there are more than 300 long-stay patients like
Surekha, Rumi and others who have been forsaken by their relatives for similar
reasons. Of them, many have recovered and they insist they have homes or
relatives they would like to go back to.

Following a directive from the Supreme Court to the human rights commission to
take immediate steps towards rehabilitation of such long-stay patients, the
first such effort in Maharashtra has been launched at Pune's regional mental
hospital, which set up a legal aid cell in January this year. Dr B M Donglikar,
superintendent at the hospital, said at least 26 cases were being handled by a
panel of advocates from the District Legal Aid Services Authority (DLASA). At
least 10 patients have been collected by their relatives after the legal cell
was set up, Donglikar said.

Around 1 in 100 people develop schizophrenia, a serious mental disorder, during
their life time. Although schizophrenia sets in later among women as compared to
men and is generally reported to have a more favourable outcome, social
consequences such as stigma, abandonment by husband, separation, homelessness,
vulnerability to sexual abuse and exposure to HIV contribute to the difficulties
in the rehabilitation of women treated for schizophrenia.

According to advocate Dr J Pathan, member of the DLASA, a panel scrutinizes such
cases referred by social workers and weekly visits are made to the hospital to
find out legal solutions.

According to Donglikar, in some cases, there has been no need to send a legal
notice. "We traced the families with the addresses provided by the patients who
have recovered and told them to start sending us legal 7/12 land extracts and
other details. Initially, there was resistance and refusal to admit the
patient's claims to property. Our social workers contacted the village gram
panchayat and the local police to collect information about such patients. Once
shown the evidence, the relatives too arrived at a compromise. They are aware
that a legal aid cell has been set up. However, if relatives still refuse to
take a patient back home, cases will have to be filed in the court to secure the
patient's claim to the property," Donglikar said.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2016

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


           Copyright 2016 Indian Express, distributed by Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


