                              87 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Advertiser

                          September 15, 1988 Thursday

Anorexics ordered to stay in hospital

SOURCE: aap

LENGTH: 382 words


SYDNEY - A magistrate has ordered two seriously ill teenage girls suffering
anorexia nervosa to remain under hospital care for treatment including
force-feeding.

The girls, aged 17 and 19, are in a serious condition in Sydney's Macquarie
Hospital, having wasted to only 22.5 kilograms and 37 kilograms respectively.
They were admitted to the hospital against their wills, under the NSW Mental
Health Act, the first about a fortnight ago.

According to legal sources, the girls sought a court ruling at a special bedside
hearing this week to be released from hospital.

Their application is believed to have been contested by their parents, who
claimed their daughters might die if released.

The girls, whose names have been withheld under the Mental Health Act, appeared
before a magistrate who ruled they continue to be treated.

The hospital refused yesterday to give out details on the nature of the
treatment, but it is understood to include force-feeding at least one of the
girls intraveneously.

There was no confirmation that the girls intended to take further legal action.

The NSW Minister of Health, Mr Collins, said no court proceedings had begun and
he did not believe such action was being contemplated.

"I believe all assistance possible is being given to the girls to make sure they
get the medical treatment they need," he said.

"They are in serious condition and the hospital is taking every step possible to
make sure it doesn't get any worse."

Mr Collins said one girl had been placed under hospital care for a one-month
period and the other for three months.

Legal sources said the case centred on whether the deadly slimmers disease was a
mental condition and whether it had affected the girls' judgment.

Mr Collins confirmed that anorexia nervosa was not a mental condition but there
was enough evidence of mental illness to warrant the girls remaining in
hospital.

"I don't have any detail on the nature of that treatment, but I understand there
is no legal application at this stage to terminate whatever treatment they are
receiving," he said.

The NSW Legal Aid Commission director, Mr Bill Robinson, said it was a legal
requirement that hearings be conducted when people were admitted to mental
institutions against their will.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

JOURNAL-CODE: ADV

                   Copyright 1988 Nationwide News Pty Limited


