                              88 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                                 Yorkshire Post

                                October 2, 2003

Defrost-row hospital faces legal claims

SOURCE: Yorkshire Post

LENGTH: 411 words


A YORKSHIRE hospital at the centre of a health scare after a faulty machine
partially defrosted sperm from cancer patients could be facing legal action if
it is found some patients have been left infertile.


=


A total of 80 patients were contacted last year after samples they had banked at
Sheffield's Royal Hallamshire Hospital were affected by the failure of a storage
container.

The sperm was donated by the men in case cancer treatments they were receiving
left them infertile.

Most of the patients are now fertile but some are still awaiting test results.

One such patient, who now lives in Cumbria, is urging the hospital to make sure
a similar situation does not arise again. It follows similar incidents at
Bristol's Southmead Hospital and Edinburgh's Western General Hospital.

He is still awaiting his test results and is considering suing the hospital if
he is proved infertile.

He has instructed leading South West law firm Foot Anstey Sargent, which is
already dealing with a number of similar cases in Bristol and Edinburgh, to act
on his behalf.

Solicitor Jonathan Green, who was involved in the claim against the Royal
Liverpool Children's Hospital, Liverpool, as a result of the Alder Hey organ
retention scandal, said: "We will be working very hard to ensure that all
families affected receive a free initial assessment of their claim.

"Legal Aid is available to families who are financially eligible while we are
looking to represent families who are not eligible on a "no win, no fee" basis".



In the Sheffield incident, last September, a seal failed on a container in the
andrology laboratory, allowing some of the liquid nitrogen to escape.

The incident came a few months after a similar one at Edinburgh's Western
General Hospital, in March 2002, while in June this year sperm samples of 28 men
receiving cancer treatment at Bristol's Southmead Hospital were destroyed.

The families of the Bristol patients started legal action against the hospital
trust in August.

Foot Anstey Sargent is now arranging meetings in and around the Sheffield region
for affected families to discuss the way forward.

A spokesman from Sheffield's Royal Hallamshire Hospital last night said: "We've
received no formal complaints from patients following the incident and we're not
currently aware of any action being taken".


Foot Anstey Sargent's has a helpline for those affected. The number is 0800 0731
411.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2003

                       Copyright 2003 Johnston Press Plc


