                              89 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                                   Irish News

                           September 7, 2006 Thursday

Fraud allegations - Leading law firm shuts down - Company had health care
clients

BYLINE: Catherine Morrison

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 470 words


The scope of the client list of Brangam Bagnall is such that its collapse has
caused serious difficulties for a host of major organisations, in particular
health care.

More than a dozen health service organisations are now faced with making
alternative legal arrangements following the closure.

Among the firm's clients listed on its website were 10 health trusts and boards
across the north and it is understood that another three have used the company
in the past. They are:

- Northern Health and Social Services Board

- Southern Health and Social Services Board

- Eastern Health and Social Services Board

- Royal Group of Hospitals

- Ulster Community and Hospital Trust

- Down Lisburn Trust

- South and East Belfast HSS Trust

- North and West Belfast HSS Trust

- Green Park Healthcare Trust

- Mater Hospital Trust

- Causeway Trust

- Homefirst Community Trust

- United Hospitals Trust

Yesterday most organisations said they were aware of developments and were said
to be working with the Law Society or the Department of Health on appointing
replacement legal advisors.

Most of the trusts have been using Brangan Bagnall since the mid-1990s when the
Central Services Agency's monopoly of the legal health services was removed.

However many of the boards and trusts said that the firm was only one of several
being used for legal advice and representation.

A spokeswoman for the Royal Group of Hospitals said that work was "on-going" on
a number of cases.

She said Brangam Bagnall and Co had represented the group since 1996.

The Ulster Community and Hospitals Trust said they were working with the Law
Society through "this difficult period".

A spokeswoman for the Southern Health and Social Services Board said the last
time the board used Brangam and Bagnall was around ten years ago. She said the
board already had alternative legal arrangements in place.

Down Lisburn Trust said the company is one of a number of solicitors they have
contact with.

South and East Belfast HSS Trust said they were working with the Law Society to
ensure that they have on-going legal support.

The Northern Board is liaising with the Department of Health, Social Services
and Public Safety to ensure that appropriate legal services continue to be
provided.

Causeway Trust said its legal services are now being provided by the Directorate
of Legal Services.

The Mater Hospital yesterday said Brangam Bagnall and Co "under the supervision
of the Law Society" continue to represent their interests.

Green Park Healthcare Trust said it was working with the Department of Health to
ensure appropriate legal arrangements were made.

Homefirst Community Trust said they were advised "this week" by the Law Society
of the closure of the firm.

"The trust is currently considering alternative arrangements for those legal
services formerly provided by Brangam Bagnall and Co."

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2006 The Irish News Limited
                              All Rights Reserved


