                              90 of 993 DOCUMENTS


              St. Charles County Business Record (St. Charles, MO)

                           September 7, 2006 Thursday

Lawsuit against SPvG firm centers on conflict-of-interest allegation

BYLINE: Donna Walter

SECTION: NEWS

LENGTH: 1263  words


The St. Louis law firm of Sandberg, Phoenix & von Gontard says it will fight
allegations of fraud and legal malpractice filed by a doctor the law firm
represented 10 years ago.

The lawsuit alleges the firm had a conflict of interest it failed to disclose to
the doctor. Central to the conflict issue are the questions of whether the
situation involves a current or a former client and whether the legal matters
are substantially related.

"The allegations in this amended petition are completely scandalous, without
basis in fact and outrageous," said attorney Gerard T. Noce, a partner with
Burroughs, Hepler, Broom, MacDonald, Hebrank & True LLP, who is representing
Sandberg, Phoenix & von Gontard.

Last summer, Dr. Keshav Joshi filed a legal malpractice claim against the SPvG
law firm and Jonathan Ries, the attorney who defended the anesthesiologist in
suspension proceedings brought by St. Luke's Hospital in 1996. Joshi's attorney,
Naren Chaganti, who practices in both Missouri and California, lodged an amended
petition with the St. Louis Circuit Court on Aug. 30.

But the amended petition is not part of the case, said Noce, because the court
hasn't granted the plaintiff leave to amend his petition. SPvG intends to fight
the plaintiff on that as well, said Noce.

The defense attorney asserted the amended petition was drafted in response to
SPvG's motion for summary judgment now pending before the court. In the motion,
filed in July, Noce argued Joshi's lawsuit is barred by the five-year statute of
limitations for legal malpractice claims.

Rejecting the notion that the law firm would settle this case, Noce said, "We'll
try the case because (1) it should be barred by statute of limitations and (2)
the facts of the case will support that our representation was not only
reasonable, it was outstanding. "

Chaganti asserts in the amended petition that SPvG "compromised Plaintiff's
interests in favor of St. Luke's Hospital's interests in order to ingratiate
themselves to St. Luke's Hospital with the view to obtain future work from St.
Luke's Hospital. "

The law firm failed to disclose to Joshi that it represented two other hospitals
that were part of the Unity Health System, as was St. Luke's Hospital, and that
it was marketing its services to St. Luke's Hospital, according to the amended
petition.

In the current claim against SPvG, Chaganti alleged internal memos support the
allegation that the law firm hid from Joshi a potential conflict of interest. In
addition, the plaintiff's lawyer alleged these memos were produced by SPvG
during discovery for the legal malpractice suit and that Joshi could not have
known of the law firm's alleged conflict of interest before production of the
memos.

A Jan. 22, 1996, memo sent from Ries to the law firm's client committee states
he conferred with "KWB, PvG and KLP" - which match the initials for Kenneth W.
Bean, Peter von Gontard and Kathleen L. Pine - and they determined there was no
conflict of interest caused by the fact that SPvG had made, and likely would
continue to make, "client development initiatives" with St. John's Mercy
Hospital, part of the Unity group. In addition, a computer check turned up "very
dated matters" in which the firm represented either St. Luke's Hospital or St.
Anthony's Hospital, another Unity member. Those matters "did not really come
close to rising to the level of a conflict situation," Ries wrote in the memo.

Two days later, Bean sent Ries a memo discussing turmoil among the
anesthesiologists at St. Luke's Hospital. Bean said he represented Western
Anesthesiology Associates, which ran the anesthesiology department at St. John's
Mercy, was in the process of forming an LLC with the group that ran the
department at St. Anthony's Hospital and also had plans to begin discussions
with two doctors at St. Luke's about running the department there. Bean ended
the memo this way: "i am not sure how our rep of your doctor would impact
western so i am not sure that i want you to tell him that we represent western.
but I did want you to have my info. "

After Joshi's preliminary hearing in front of three St. Luke's doctors but
before the scheduled full hearing was held, Joshi resigned from St. Luke's
Hospital, stating in a letter he was doing so "in order to proceed with a
program of employment and professional development at the University of
Missouri. " The full hearing was canceled because Joshi's resignation eliminated
the need for it.

Joshi's lawsuit against SPvG alleges Ries and the hospital secretly agreed to
waive the full hearing with the knowledge that the waiver and Joshi's
resignation from the hospital would prevent Joshi from successfully suing the
hospital.

A memo Ries wrote for the case file on May 17, 1996, shows the hospital "lobbied
and negotiated" for a resolution that included Joshi's voluntary retirement.
Joshi alleges in the lawsuit that Ries never told him the hospital broached the
topic of settlement but instead made the doctor think the resignation was Ries'
idea. Nor did Ries tell him the hospital was afraid of a lawsuit from Joshi -
information that "would have been of immense help in devising Plaintiff's
strategy at the May 31, 1996 hearing," according to Chaganti's filing. The
amended petition also alleges Joshi didn't authorize Ries to negotiate a
settlement with the hospital, nor did he authorize the lawyer to discuss Joshi's
litigation strategies with the hospital.

The file memo shows Ries and Richard A. Wunderlich, the hospital's attorney,
agreed Joshi's voluntary resignation would "moot any need" for the full hearing.
But the memo also shows Ries objected to the hospital's request that Joshi fully
release the hospital from any claims.

Ries wrote in the file memo: "I also observed that the resignation and close of
these proceedings without any adverse final determination by the Board would
certainly tend to stand in the way of any effective approach to a lawsuit. But I
pointed out that we and Dr. Joshi cannot know everything that has occurred, and
that it would be asking too much to have Joshi requested to sign some kind of
full release when he would already be relinquishing his privileges by the
resignation to pursue the program in Columbia. "

In the same memo, Ries said he told Wunderlich he didn't expect Joshi to sue and
that the firm had not recommended he do so. A Jan. 22, 1996, file memo drafted
by Ries states Joshi and his wife had been "clearly informed" that SPvG
generally wouldn't undertake a "revenge or strike-type" lawsuit against the
hospital because the firm is in the practice of defending, not suing, health
care providers.

If Joshi's lawsuit survives the law firm's motion for summary judgment, then the
burden will be on him to show there was a substantial relationship between
SPvG's earlier representation of the hospital and its representation of Joshi,
according to Washington University law professor Peter Joy, who is known as an
expert in legal ethics. Joy is not involved in this lawsuit.

In addition, Joshi will need to connect the dots between the defense he received
from the law firm and the amount of work the law firm received from the
hospital, said Joy. "Coincidence alone isn't enough," he said.

"If they are in discussions with the hospital about possibly representing the
hospital in the future at the same time that they're representing the doctor,
that would be a conflict of interest," he said. "On the other hand, if they
wanted to represent the hospital in the future but they weren't in discussions
with the hospital, that wouldn't pose a conflict of interests. "

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

