                              91 of 993 DOCUMENTS


                              China Business News

                     February 11, 2014 Tuesday 6:30 AM EST

Higher People's Court Guangxi: Masan Court Duocuobingju Care Care Spring Migrant
Workers

LENGTH: 536  words


Beijing, Feb. 11 -- Mashan County People's Court against migrant workers return
home during the Spring Festival time to focus, higher number of features, and
actively carry out "care and support for migrant workers' activities, taken a
number of convenient measures to safeguard their legitimate rights and
interests.



Open "green action channel migrant workers." Hospital services in the lawsuit
filed hall window opened up a "green action channel migrant workers" on the
return of migrant workers labor disputes, workers' compensation, medical
malpractice and other cases the implementation of the priority placed on file.
Meanwhile, due to injuries mobility of migrant workers, the implementation of
filing or home phone filing, providing favorable conditions for migrant workers
litigation. 2014  1 January to 10 February, the hospital filed a total of 253,
634 people, including cases involving migrant workers to 189, 440 people.

During the trial focus on the implementation of aspects of the legitimate rights
and interests of migrant workers. Assizes hospital as a platform to focus on the
admissibility of cases migrant workers, the implementation of in-place file,
place the trial, local mediation, place closed "one-stop" service model. 2014  1
January to 10 February, the hospital weeks deer, ancient and nobile zero to
three people's courts concluded assizes way cases involving migrant workers 29,
45 people. Meanwhile, cases involving migrant workers to give priority to
implementation to maximize the maintenance and protection of migrant workers'
legitimate rights and interests. 2014  1 January to 10 February, the hospital
rulings involving cases of two migrant workers, rulings subject of more than
15,000 yuan. January 30, hospital and police officers in New Year's Eve together
on this day fast rulings of cases of migrant workers pay talks, the successful
implementation of section 4452 yuan was executed, the applicant Hwang expressed
satisfaction.

Multiple ways to carry out legal advocacy. Hospital before and after the Spring
Festival, the organization of police officers go to the countryside, factories,
bus, etc. migrant workers gathering place, to carry out special legal advocacy
activities on basic legal knowledge migrant workers, employment and other
aspects of the site legal advice. January 20, dean of the hospital Qinge Bing
toy factory Mashan wide surplus of migrant workers to carry out activities of
sympathy, and to raise labor contract workers, social security and other issues
were answered; January 22, the hospital Mission sent two police officers to
participate in the county organization's "2014 Rural Youth League Information
Service Month" activities, to the town of migrant workers Week deer publicity of
legal knowledge; February 10, the hospital sent seven police officers to the
county bus station, to migrant workers coming back to the city to provide legal
advice. According to statistics, the legal publicity activities undertaken by
the hospital before and after the Spring Festival, migrant workers were
distributed to more than 200 copies of the brochure, 20 people received legal
advice, by the return of migrant workers unanimous praise, received good effect.

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2014

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication


                           Copyright 2014 Contify.com
                              All Rights Reserved


