                              93 of 993 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                            August 22, 2004, Sunday

BUG SURVIVOR IN NEW BATTLE;
 MRSA MAN'S LONDON HOSPITAL ACTION ROW

BYLINE: DONNA CARTON

SECTION: Ulster Edition; NEWS; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 501 words

HIGHLIGHT: SURVIVOR: Noel McGarrigle, who contracted MRSA


SUPERBUG survivor Noel McGarrigle can't battle the hospital in which he nearly
died.. because he lives in Northern Ireland.

The father-of-three said he has been left without recourse to the law because of
legal aid rules.

The father-of-three was left fighting for his life when he contracted MRSA - the
most dangerous and contagious hospital-acquired infection - following a heart
bypass operation.

However, because he was in hospital in England, he can't get legal aid in
Northern Ireland and, he said, he can't find a solicitor in England who doesn't
demand hundreds of pounds up front.

Mr McGarrigle, 56, was supposed to be in Hammersmith Hospital, London for seven
days, but ended up staying seven gruelling weeks.

He couldn't eat, was fed through tubes, couldn't walk and could barely sleep
throughout his MRSA ordeal.

He said: "When I was eventually allowed home, my wounds began to grow outwards
and the scabs had to be cut off. I was in a terrible state.

"I didn't know I had MRSA until I was told the day before I went home. I was so
ill during those seven weeks, I didn't know if I'd live or die. It was terrible.

"Then when I decided to seek legal help to see if there was any action I could
take against the hospital, I was told I couldn't get legal aid here, only in
England. I have contacted a lot of solicitors there and they want around pounds
500 before they even open my file.

"I don't have that kind of money. So what am I supposed to do?"

Mr McGarrigle has been trying to seek compensation for his hospital trauma for
more than a year.

"MRSA has been all over the news and Government Minister John Reid said he was
going to fight to get rid of it. Can Mr Reid tell me what I should do to get
answers from Hammersmith Hospital?"

When Mr McGarrigle, from Strabane, County Tyrone, was in hospital, he was so
concerned about the cleanliness of his ward he phoned the doctor who had
arranged his treatment in London to come over to inspect the hospital.

"There were 16 of us sharing one toilet. I also noticed that some nurses washed
their hands as they came into the critical ward while others didn't," claimed Mr
McGarrigle.

"Cleaners came in and out of our ward without any protective clothing on and
even emptied buckets of dirty water into our toilet."

The prevalence of MRSA has become a major problem for hospitals and a serious
health issue for the Government.

Every NHS trust in London was recently asked whether it had enough facilities to
treat patients with MRSA in separate areas. All hospitals accept that patients
with the bug should be treated in isolation.

However, it was revealed that only four hospitals in London - the Royal Marsden,
the Royal Free, Moorfields Eye Hospital and Queen Mary's, Sidcup - insisted that
people with hospital-acquired infections used separate bathrooms and toilets.

But almost half of the 24 London hospitals that replied said they "sometimes" or
"occasionally" ran out of space.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2004 MGN Ltd.


