                              94 of 993 DOCUMENTS

                         St. Petersburg Times (Florida)

                   February 10, 1996, Saturday, City Edition

Hospital outspent city by almost 10-1 on ads

BYLINE: DEANNA BELLANDI

SECTION: NORTH PINELLAS TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 395 words

DATELINE: TARPON SPRINGS



Helen Ellis Memorial Hospital spent almost 10 times more than the city in
advertising seeking to persuade voters to defeat a November referendum that
would have given the City Commission permission to sell the hospital.

The hospital has reported spending $ 228,687 for a media blitz that included
television, radio and newspaper advertisements, according to a tally of
hospital campaign reports done by City Clerk Kathy Alesafis. The tally also
included $ 2,595 in legal expenses.

Comparatively, the city spent $ 25,328 on newspaper and mail advertisements,
city records indicate.

"They spent a lot of money and they won," Mayor Anita Protos said.

City and hospital officials had been feuding over the future of Helen Ellis
Memorial Hospital.

City officials wanted to persuade voters to sell the 150-bed non-profit
hospital, which is owned by the city but run by a private foundation. Hospital
foundation officials opposed the sale.

The foundation prevailed, though, when voters overwhelmingly refused to  give
the City Commission authority to sell Helen Ellis.

Lester Garner, hospital board chairman, said no services at Helen Ellis  were
sacrificed to pay the advertising bills.

He did say, however, that it was money taken from the hospital's operating
budget that might have been used later to buy more equipment.

"I think it's wasted money," Garner said. "I think it's a shame we were  put
into a position that we had to spend that money."

Garner said he is skeptical of the city's reported expenses, which weren't
required to be filed with the City Clerk.

"I think that's low-balling," he said.

But the hospital might see its expenses go down, according to a Feb. 7  letter
from hospital administrator Joe Kiefer to Alesafis.

Kiefer, who could not be reached for comment Friday, told her he is still
awaiting a final bill from the hospital's Pittsburgh-based public relations
firm and some credits might be included.

Advertising bills haven't been the only expenses for both sides. They've  also
had hefty legal bills.

The city has spent more than $ 100,000 in legal fees, and a tally of the
hospital's legal expenses wasn't available Friday.

But there's no end in sight to the legal bills either because a lawsuit,  filed
by the hospital to clear up lease disputes with the city, is still  pending.

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DISTRIBUTION: NORTH PINELLAS TIMES

                    Copyright 1996 Times Publishing Company


